
   Anzhela Elibegova, Armine Adibekian
   Armenophobia in Azerbaijan
   Translation by Armen Ayvazyan
   Editing by Armen Ayvazyan
   A. Adibekyan, A. Elibegova

   © “Information and Public Relations Center” of the Administration of the President of the Republic of Armenia
   Opening Remarks
   The idea of this book came after the presentation ofAzeriсhildproject which represented a systematized compilation of works by Azerbaijani authors intended for children audiences along with a series of examples of works created by children themselves, which gave a clear demonstration of the gap between the real situation in the Azerbaijani society about anything relating to Armenia and the declared tolerance for diversity of cultures and religions.
   Naturally enough, we tend to label this hatred asarmenophobiaoften without full awareness of the pivotal role it plays in shaping the ethnic identity of Azerbaijanis; such hatred channeled against all that pertains to Armenia stands as the nemesis of their psychological model and fuels the juxtaposition ofus vs. themwhich is fraught with repercussions for Azerbaijanis themselves.
   The large archive compiled by the authors of this book a) serves as a thesaurus for an analysis of ongoing processes in the Azerbaijani society and b) allows building a temporal perspective on three levels by covering the past history, current situation and expected ramifications of the armenophobic policy pursued at the state level in Azerbaijan.
   The book contains necessary factual evidence and theoretical premises that can be viewed as illustrative of the psychological and social basis underpinning the processes that occur in the Azerbaijani society and have some bearing on us. The chance to scrutinize online the phenomenon of armenophobia in the social milieu of Azerbaijan facilitates the work of specialists and becomes a continuous resource for analysis.
   The authors are certainly far from the allegation that the Armenian society– if taken under a rigorous scrutiny – will not display similar traits. However, it must be emphasized that the scale and level of such propaganda defy all reasonable comparison in the first place.
   The book provides overwhelming evidence attesting to a widespread armenophobia in Azerbaijan and beyond its borders– orchestrated and inspired by the state while represented by its existing political forces with the full approval and support of the intellectual elite and the society as a whole. In this context, there is a blatant contradiction between the verbal statements declaring commitment to certain values and a very specific line of action that nullifies them. Secondly, the book aims exclusively to narrate facts without recourse to any hasty conclusions, partial assessments or biased analysis.
   It must be stressed that all examples included in the book are taken from Azerbaijani or neutral sources. The limitations of this publication warrant the inclusion of only the most typical and common manifestations of armenophobia in Azerbaijan. Besides, considering the frequent practice employed by the Azerbaijani media consisting in removal of materials from original sources, the authors have prepared screen shots for all examples used in the book.
   The book is intended for a wide audience, and does not exclusively target Armenian readers. We address this book to the international community, the people of Azerbaijan and its religious leaders.
   It is incumbent on us to warn that showing retaliatory xenophobia is inadmissible; therefore, this book is not intended for use as a teaching material in schools and is not recommended for highly sensitive readers.
   And, of course, we wish to express our special gratitude to all those whose assistance and support contributed to the publication of this book.
   The authors also recommend several thematic websites created upon the initiative of the Information and Public Relations Center of the Administration of the President of the Republic of Armenia by its experts
   http://karabakhrecords.info
   http://maragha.org
   http://azerichild.info
   http://xocali.net
   http://ermenihaber.am
   http://xocali.tv
   http://justiceforkhojaly.tv
Armine Adibekyan,Head of theXenophobia Prevention InitiativeNGOAnzhela Elibegova,Candidate of Political Sciences, expert on the geopolitics of the South Caucasus
   1. What is important to know about xenophobia?
   The complex notion ofxenophobiacan lend itself to a scrutiny under diverse perspectives of such sciences as biology, medicine, psychology, sociology, ethnology, political science, cultural studies and other related disciplines, yet regardless of its aspects it boils down to an antagonistic perception of others vs. your own kind.
   No real threat from the‘others’ must necessarily be present to trigger off the xenophobia complex as it is intended to bring together the members of any specific community, therefore any similar marking will suffice to serve a key indicator distinguishing between ‘us’ and ‘them’.
   The sense of affiliation with a community (i.e. family, tribe, religious, professional, cultural or ethnic group) is a core human need.1 Being part of an ethnic community ranks high among top needs in the self-identification of any individual. Therefore, everything that cannot be framed into the historical concept of ethnic self-identification may elicit individual feelings of rejection, negation, exclusion and opposition.
   The conflictologist Christopher Mitchell2 in his study of primary self-identification comes up with the following socio-psychological findings.
   • Affiliation with a large group meets the need felt by every individual to be accepted by others.
   • Identification with any particular group is instrumental in building self-esteem and sense of security; therefore it is of preference that the group in question be successful from the perspective of its individual members.
   • Individuals shun any negative opinions in respect of their own group, as it relates to their wish to maintain a high self-esteem; In their ambition to build a high self-esteem individuals are likely to glorify their group and overlook information on its actions or qualities that can put the group or its members in a bad light.
   • The division into ‘us’ and ‘them’ is almost inevitably bound to debase ‘them’ so that ‘us’ can be hailed by the same token;
   • Group identification is often so strong that the values and objectives of the group are internalized and assimilated by its individual members.
   • Any threat to the group or any of its values and goals will be regarded by its members as a personal threat putting their own values at risk.

   The awareness of pitting‘us’ against ‘them’ occurs through close ties, such as:
   • family, kinship, blood ties (tribe, clan, family);
   • ethnicity (people, ethnic group, nation);
   • language (language, dialect, vernacular);
   • creed (religion, sectarian groups);
   • social affiliation (community, estate, class, group).

   ‘One of us’is a holder of models that form and govern the conduct within a single community as inherited from previous generations and replicated by generations that follow.
   The‘others’are associated with fear, alleged trouble and change– not infrequently for worse. Change, aggression, invasion and destruction are in direct association with the concept of ‘others’ and set the foundation underlying the picture of the world formed by virtually all peoples. This statement is true not only for relations between individuals and groups but also covers the interaction of the human being with nature (natural phenomena, wild animals, etc.). Social psychologists G.U. Soldatova and A. V. Makarchuk hold the view that more often the attitude towards ‘aliens’ is dominated by fear.3 Historically, people have always treated arcane, unknown and new things with apprehension. According to Erich Fromm, this fear, which may later translate into suspiciousness and culminate in rejection, can be traced back to the need of making‘extraordinary decisions’.4
   According to some authors, the concept of‘alien’ cannot be simply equated with the concepts of‘opposed’, ‘other’or‘enemy’, but serves as an axis that lends sense to the concept of‘one of our own’. People who live in homogeneous environments rarely reflect on their identity seeing the world framed into a shared ideologies, perceptions and behavioral patterns. Only after they face an alternative and become aware of their differences, do they form a picture of their own kind and identify themselves as bearers of their‘own’system.
   People’s view and evaluation of ‘aliens’ spring from their own customs, traditions and lines of conduct. The concept of‘us’(‘one of our kind’, ‘friends’, ‘desirables’) has been carved by chiseling out‘them’(‘enemies’, ‘aliens’, ‘undesirables’). People have long been able to build awareness of the specifics of their own ethnic group only through comparison and contrast with others.5
   ‘Aliens’ can be classified as follows:
   ‘Remote aliens’are a group known to exist but with so far no contacts established or vital interests affected due to geographical, historical and other reasons. This category evokes neutral and descriptive attitude that is free from negative implications and according to Igor Kon‘arouses curiosity’ (contacts between Armenians and Eskimos, Georgians and Uighurs, Bushmen and Sioux).
   Friendly aliensare a group with a shared history of cooperation, intensive contact, overcoming the same calamities and joining forces in warfare against common enemies. The perception of this category of‘aliens’ takes on a positive hue with their differences well known, thoroughly examined, accepted and viewed favorably (contacts between Armenians and Assyrians, Armenians and Greeks, Azerbaijanis and Turks, etc.). Soldatova defines this category rather as ‘others’ than ‘aliens’. “They both attract and repel at the same time. By itself, such emotional duality is free from negative connotations, and the odds are always high that such ‘other-alien’ may become a ‘one of our own’.6
   Nearby alienrepresent a group located in the immediate vicinity, where a history of conflicts, confrontation and struggle underlies the relations with this group. This may refer to warring tribes, states or opposing systems, which according to G. Soldatova can be defined as‘hostile’. Therefore, ‘hostile-aliens’ are usually shunned, rejected, blamed for all calamities and disasters; frequently they are targeted as enemies and hated. And, should the rational fear of the unknown degenerate into such manifestations, then we come to deal with nothing short of xenophobia – fear of aliens, feelings of hatred and animosity towards ‘alien’ individuals and groups which differ from us”.7 The perception of‘hostile-aliens’ is characterized by negative hues and mutually aggressive attitudes that last. ‘Hostile aliens’ are groups which live, as a rule, in the immediate vicinity of each other (share a border) and sometimes within the same community (relations between the national or religious minorities and the majority).
   It must be noted that the transition from the second category of‘aliens’ to the third category is rather commonplace. Familiar, close and not numerous as they are, they may be in need of protection and defense. However, as ‘aliens’ evolve to the extent of wanting to break off, take charge of their own problems and meet their needs on equal footing with the majority, they may be immediately labeled as ‘hostile enemies’. Qualities previously regarded in a positive vein may become tinged with entirely opposite feelings.
   Repelling alien elements hinges on the importance of the global goal. For instance, the ethnic differentiation of own kind vs. aliens lies along the lines:“We are Armenians” or “We are Lezgins”. But within the same ethnic group, identical processes may occur on subethnic or territorial levels, such as: Lezgins of Azerbaijan vs. Legzins of Dagestan, Cristian Armenians vs. Muslim Armenians, which can further break into factions based on the local vernacular, region or a patron saint worshiped. Consolidation or exclusion varies depending on the goal or status of the ‘alien’ in the context of the problem at hand.
   The interaction between the groups on the basis of their distinctions can be as follows:
   • Biological– based on the survival instinct.
   • Psychological– based on the perception of the other group and the processes that it entails, such as: patterns of thinking, fears, motives, etc., that form attitudes and behavior.
   • Socio-psychological– based on the differentiation occurring within the society and the social processes that it entails.
   • Political– based on the role and responsibility of the authorities in shaping the public opinion and ways to cultivate or thwart xenophobic tendencies.

   The biological aspect
   The origins of xenophobia have been traditionally traced back to biological characteristics, where the rejection of an‘alien’ is seen as an instinctive survival mechanism for preserving the kind and species. Those ‘of own kind’ are protected from extinction as scarce resources are relentlessly fought over.8
   However, seeking to justify human behavior by biological factors only is highly contentious. Throughout the history, social structures were governed by placing taboos and bans on natural biological instincts through religious, moral, administrative and legal provisions. A. Tsiurupa maintains the view that“such an instinct is pernicious and pointless in the human society”.9 This comes to say that an entire universe of differences separates the animal world and the human society, and therefore biology may not be referred to as an excuse for any conduct which the human society flags as detrimental.

   Psychological and socio-psychological aspect
   Xenophobiais an irrational sentiment and a source of an entire set of negative individual emotions hinging on fears, prejudices, stereotypes, biased judgments and all ensuing states and behavioral patterns.
   Xenophobia is based on anticipated risks and fears springing from a twisted perception of the reality rather than any objective circumstances. Suspected existence of external and quite specific forces responsible for adverse effects occurring within‘own’ society and putting its very existence at risk is referred to in support of allegations of ill intent on the part of ‘aliens’.
   The surrounding world is seen as a‘pyramid of threats’ with the enemy’s incarnation placed at its top and possessing destructive traits, objectives and instruments. The “enemy” can manipulate the surrounding environment (by enchanting, bribing, slandering or lobbying) and makes use of these capabilities and capacities to influence the destructive processes within the society. The mirror image of this pyramid represents the prism, through which the reality is seen, and which comprises attitudes, stereotypes and projections cultivating the image of an enemy.This process is followed by frustration which leads to aggression and repression.
   Frustrationis a psychological condition occurring where there are no or limited possibilities to meet one’s needs and causing a feeling of deprivation over what is aspired for. The theory of aggression and frustration maintains that the frustrated condition leads to an aggression directed against the actual or purported source of frustration, any other third party or even against own self.10
   In Azerbaijan, for instance,‘Karabakh’ is usually considered to be such source of frustration (standing collectively for a military defeat, the negotiation process, attempts to win it back, absence of a promised war) where Armenians as ethnic group are labeled as its cause, regardless of their place of residence, nationality, sex, age, and social status.
   Aggression–is a deliberate action or rhetoric, meant to cause damage or offense to its target. The aggression may occur unaccompanied by action; it can manifest itself in rhetoric, fantasizing, dreams or even in a thoroughly meditated retaliation plan,11 such asvociferating insults in the press, threats of blasting nuclear power plants or shooting down civilian aircrafts, wishful thinking on“celebrating the next Nowruz in Shusha”, public discussion of incursion plans and hostilities.
   There are several ways of externalizing aggression:12
   Redirection against the recognized cause of frustration– Karabakh and Armenia, including their inhabitants, who are labeled as “separatists”, “aggressors” and “occupying forces”.
   Redirection against absolutely innocent targets– at the end of the twentieth century, the Armenian population of Sumgait, Baku and Kirovabad, while not being the supporters of theMiatsumideology (demands to transfer Nagorno-Karabakh under the Armenian jurisdiction), fell victim to pogroms in Azerbaijan because of their compatriots’ actions in Karabakh only on the grounds of their Armenian ethnicity. In the aftermath of the war, this aggression was further extended to those, who, according to the official Baku were pro-Armenian and therefore supported anti-Azerbaijan policy; we refer to the infamous ‘Black list’, whichwill be discussed later.
   Transferring inside own society, i.e. redirection against own self– the search for internal “Armenian enemies”, suppressing the dissidence and authoritarianism resulting in an increased rate of suicides and homicides (domestic murders and political assassinations).
   Also,ethnic attitudes/mindsetsform part of the socio-psychological dimension. This refers to a person’s propensity to perceive individual aspects of the life of the nation and relations between nations as well as to act in a certain way in a particular situation, in accordance with such perceptions.13
   There are three types of attitudes/mindsets:
   Positive:overestimation of positive qualities;
   Negative:overestimation of negative qualities;
   Adequate:a balanced approach in evaluating some characteristics.
   The formulation of attitudes/mindsets falls under the impact of the attitudes/mindsets instilled by parents (similarities between attitudes of parents and children on socially significant subjects), persons of high repute and the mass media. All of these serve as agents of education, propaganda and ideology in shaping the needed stereotype.
   Grandfather to his grandson:The Armenians are our enemies, son. These accursed people have been blighting our lives for 5 years now fouling up everything with their venom. Once, we accepted them into our service as farm hands and servants. We gave them land, housing and shelter. They grew on our scraps. Let them be damned for abusing our kindness. As insolent dogs bark at their masters, so did they pay us back with a vile ingratitude to bite those who lent them a hand and supported them in times of hardship. These scoundrels and bastards bark at those who gave them bread and refuge14.15
   Azad Sharif,a veteran of Azerbaijani journalism:We must shout this message loud and clear so that our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren may hear us and avoid the mistakes of our fathers and our own. Let them never trust Armenians again and give them the chance to do another Khojaly16! Heed my words, in half a century they will once again knock at our doors offering their treacherous friendship, begging for our trust, repenting their sins and trying to win our favor with their sweet talk. Children! Grandchildren! And great-grandchildren! Never forget this!”
   Frequently, these attitudes/mindsets are generated on the basis of a successful or failed communication experience with a representative of some group. Ethnic attitudes/mindsets, just like any others, underpin the common misconceptions on others. However, they are susceptible to change under temporal or situational factors; this can be accomplished through collecting sufficient knowledge about the subject, personal contacts or altering the ideological milieu.
   Mirmekhti Agaoghlu:In this way, the hatred inside me gradually transformed into a complex of insignificance. I felt upset over being lied to for so long.
   Out of pure interest, I began communicating with some Armenian girls on the website www.mail.ru. They used to tell me:“Your guys are so rude, ill-mannered and immoral; they use obscene language and insult”. I tried to show some civilized manners.&lt;…&gt; I told these girls, that I am different and not like them.
   Sometimes, we talked about the war. We tried to figure out who was right, who was to blame, while forgetting that resolution of this conflict was up to the presidents, and not us. And when we realized this simple truth, the bombast dissipated, and our conversation returned to the regular subject of simple things in our lives.&lt;…&gt; The years of our childhood saw crowds rushing into streets for rallies, and ever since we have been creating the great Armenian foe by nurturing, elaborating and fueling its growth. In the end, we made it so big that we started seeing only what we wanted to see rather than the reality.&lt;…&gt; but every time we get to know who our enemies are and what they are capable of, we are up for a shock.17
   In their turn, ethnic attitudes/mindsets underlie the ethnic stereotyping, which constitutes an interaction element based on the experience of previous generations which serve as a source of human views and perceptions.
   Stereotypeis a set of views that reflects the attitudes/mindsets of a social group in respect of a specific phenomenon or another social group.Ethnic stereotypeis a firmly ingrained attitude/mindset that directly affects how the surrounding people are perceived and how their behavior is interpreted. Stereotyping is a convenient way of classifying and systematizing information. Ethnic stereotypes are associated with a generalized and schematized description of the properties and characteristics of one’s own ethnic community (autostereotypes) and those of an alien ethnic community (heterostereotypes).18
   The present research revealed the dominant stereotypes in Azerbaijan, which are as follows:
   Azerbaijani autostereotypes: very ancient, cultured, civilized, hospitable, trusting, forgiving, hard-working, talented, creative, honest, decent, proud, courageous, patriotic and tolerant people.
   Kenan Guluzadeh:Azerbaijanis is truly gentle nation, far from any gratuitous aggressiveness, let alone any deliberate cultivation or incitement of religious hatred and national or ethnic strife. These are not just lofty words, but the reality that we all know.&lt;…&gt; We can feel no hatred towards the people who live in the neighboring countries, and this includes Armenians. Indeed, we may loathe, and perhaps rightfully do so, some nationalist circles in Armenia.&lt;…&gt; But we are not capable of hating an entire nation, simply because a human soul cannot house so much hatred.&lt;…&gt; Xenophobia is foreign to the Azerbaijani society. We are all Azerbaijani, and we have no other motherland.19
   Heterostereotypes of Armenians– vile, perfidious, lying, bloodthirsty, thieving, untalented, ungrateful, greedy, mercenary, scheming, petty merchants and perjurers.
   Azad Sharif,a veteran of Azerbaijani journalism:Let us be honest at least to ourselves and admit the fact that we are an amazingly trusting nation: we bear no grudges and take pride in our multiculturalism. For centuries, our forgiving nature was abused by our treacherous and envious neighbors who shared with us the same courtyard, front door, the city or the village&lt;Armenians&gt;. This turned into a tragedy for us. They ate our bread, they drank our water, they enrolled in our schools and universities, they benefited from the riches of our republic and amassed considerable wealth. They married off their women to our men. It is no coincidence that some 30 thousand Armenian women live in our country. We failed to see through the genetic perfidy of Armenians. We even did not heed in earnest the words of the great Pushkin, who exclaimed some two hundred years ago:“You are a coward, you are a slave, you are Armenian!”20
   Umoud Khazar, activist of Nida movement:I recall my childhood when influenced by some absurd propaganda I pictured Armenians as one-eyed, long-bearded, cannibal Cyclops, and ingenious parents spooked their children not with bogeyman stories but Armenians; nothing has changed ever since.21
   Assessing an individual and his/her conduct in terms of a group affiliation is a form of ethnic stereotyping. As a rule, such assessment represents a projection of one’s own qualities on the “alien”.
   Projectionis a form of psychological defense that attributes to someone else the traits of one’s own character, personal qualities, feelings, relationships, etc. The projection functions as a protective mechanism guarding the individual against alarming sentiments. Besides, a desire or emotion so projected is perceived by the individual as directed at his/her own self externally. This comes as a consequence of the psychological repression that amounts to a subconscious attribution of one’s own qualities, feelings and desires to another person.22 In this case, repressed desires are projected to someone else. Meanwhile the individual condemns others for what he/she fails to identify as his/her own desires.
   Repressionis a protective process, through which ideas are removed from the consciousness. Due to the repression process, thoughts are suppressed and subdued inwards never ceasing to influence the individual and triggering an internal conflict.23
   An individual who resorts to the protective mechanism of projection is convinced that others are capable of ill deeds while harbors latent tendencies to do the same. Sometimes, it is regretted that such ill deeds were not committed when opportunity presented itself. The most illustrative example of such projection can be found in the extensively trumpeted thesis on the“incompatibility of Armenians and Azerbaijanis” attributed to the ex-president of Armenia Robert Kocharyan.
   By contrasting their“tolerance” and the “racism” of Armenians,24 the Azerbaijani authorities are at odds with their own unabashed display of xenophobic rhetoric:
   • Some human rights defenders in Azerbaijan must be contaminated by a mix of the Armenian blood in their veins.25
   • They (Armenians) must be killed in Karabakh and not in other countries.26It can be confidently affirmed that if Hays27 ever show any“talent” at all, it is in no way an achievement of their own nation, but the result of the Turkish blood that most of them have flowing in their veins.28
   • Although, in this case I chose the wrong wording and unwittingly insulted a noble and freedom-loving animal (‘wolf’ – author’s note) – the only one that cannot be tamed – by comparing it with the Armenians. It goes without saying that the love of freedom (throughout their history, Armenians prostrated themselves under the heels of others, and for the last three hundred years they have comfortably established themselves as Russia’s boot-licking pet dogs) or nobility for that matter are foreign to this nation. Instead, a comparison with jackals would be more appropriate, with their howling reminiscent of the wails of our vile neighbors about “their history full of suffering”.29
   Similar distorted perceptions and judgments engender negative phenomena such as bias, prejudice and discrimination.
   Biasis a preconceived judgment, belief or point of view on a person without sufficient reasons.30
   Prejudiceis a false condemnation of people solely on the basis of their affiliation with an ethnic group.31
   Discriminationis a negative line of conduct or appeals to adopt a negative line of conduct in respect of certain people solely on the account of their affiliation with a particular ethnic group.32
   If bias is a negative attitude/mindset, and prejudice is a negative judgment about a person and his/her actions, then discrimination is a negative behavior. Rectifying negative attitudes/mindsets can contribute towards eradicating discriminatory behavior.33
   In view of the foregoing, it can be argued that stereotypes are ideal tools for shaping the image of enemy instilled in the public mind.
   Image of the enemyis an ideological and psychological stereotype that allows establishing expectations, perceptions and behavior in respect of an“alien” who may be ascribed superhuman, arcane or negative traits.
   However, this is hard to achieve without firmly relying onethnocentrism, which is a tendency to view one’s own ethnic group and its social standards as a basis for value judgments on the practices of others. It is understood that the human being lends supremacy to own standards most likely forself-assertion and self-praise, yet it must not necessarily lead to a bad attitude towards the practices of foreign groups.34
   Similarly, people in medieval Japan viewed the Chinese as their teachers and a source of many cultural borrowings, yet they referred to them using the offensive term of“Southern Barbarians”. The Greeks who coined the term “barbarian” (the one who babbles) acted in a comparable fashion.
   For this very reason, the shaping of the enemy image based on the ethnocentrism also impliesdemonizingand dehumanizingthe“aliens”35.
   Dehumanizationimplies a total antagonism between‘them’ and ‘us’ going as far as stripping them of their humanity. The members of the alien group are identified with ill-famed animal species, such as scorpions, snakes, jackals, rats, etc. Specifically, during the preparation stage of the Tutsi genocide in Rwanda, government-controlled radio stations compared the Tutsi with cockroaches.36
   Demonizationimplies ascribing to“aliens” certain negative qualities such as loose morals, marginality and possession of some supernatural powers using which they may exert adverse effects.
   Using theenemy image typologyproposed by the historian Yelena Sinyavskaya37 who studied the subject in the army or in wartime,38 in relation to the armenophobic policies in Azerbaijan in the context of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the image of enemy may be described as follows:
   Thesynchronousimage of the enemy represents a generalized picture that can be shaped during the hostilities through direct personal involvement (former combatants of the Karabakh war);
   Theretrospectiveimage of enemy brings together the individual memories of former combatants who were personally involved in certain events (and represent altered interpretations of such events many years after they happen);
   The image of the enemy shaped by theofficial propagandaprecedes the personal experience of any contacts with the enemy (and occurs at the level of officials or the most reputable figures for the community);
   The image of the enemy shaped byanalyticalservices prevails amongcommanding officers and diverse secret services, which require an adequate picture of an enemy based on an objective and a voluminous data for operational and strategic decision-making;
   The image of the enemy shaped throughpersonal contact and daily lifeis the most common and present at all army levels with those directly involved in the fighting or conflict.

   Political dimension
   The political component of xenophobia is based on the tendency to manipulate the public mind for channeling the emotional energy and tension towards the political agenda that is in the interest of the manipulator.
   The very existence of the“external enemy”is asserted and instilled in the minds of the people for internal mobilization and, as a rule, is used by the political elite to suppress forces and currents aimed against it within the group.
   “The image of the enemy” instilled in the minds of the people can unite the society around the figure of a charismatic leader making it temporarily oblivious of or alleviating for a moment the domestic conflict between the authorities and the society. It can help make up for economic and socialblunders committed by the ruling elite. In the face of any threat, real or imaginary, the population demonstrates obedience to a ruler, who is endowed with a status of the “Father”, “Defender” or “Leader” of the nation.39
   The idea of correlation between the formation and development of the society and specific individual is clearly and consistently epitomized in authoritarian societies; Azerbaijan can rightfully be characterized as such with its personality cult of Heydar Aliyev as the“Founding Father” and the “Savior” of nation placing his and his descendants’ authority above any criticism or discussion.
   Dear Mr. President! Once, one of our wise poets said that the sun of the Orient will rise here in Azerbaijan. Indeed, the time has come, and in 1969 the sun rose over Azerbaijan.
   That sun was our genius leader– the great Heydar Aliyev, who in the Soviet period could turn in a short time an economically deprived republic into fully developed country making our homeland thrive. The sun was the architect and creator of the independent Azerbaijan – Heydar Aliyev. The sun was the founding father and the author of Azerbaijan oil strategy – our great leader Heydar Aliyev. Subsequently, you have continued the political course of our great leader. In the period of your leadership, our country has seen great accomplishments. New cities and towns were built, and country’s infrastructure was reconstructed. Gigantic social and industrial facilities were created. There are too many things to list. And, most importantly, the financial and spiritual welfare of our people becomes increasingly better with every new day.40
   Such authoritarian individual maintains an outward indifference and betrays no ambition for power despite its attractiveness. Instead, this leader forms a clique of loyal people and plants in their minds the conviction that wielding power is such a complex, responsible and divine vocation that only a man of extraordinary and superhuman abilities can cope with it.41 If the power represents a super value only a super human deserves it. The loyals, in their turn, carry this conviction down the social hierarchy.
   In May and June 1993, with the threat of civil war and the loss of independence looming over the country amid a severe governmental crisis, the people of Azerbaijan stood up with an insistent plea for Heydar Aliyev’s return to power.42
   Modesty is yet another distinctive feature of the authoritarian personality. By the way, this person’s true wealth, ambitions and the desire to retain power at any cost have no bearing on this. The picture of the reality in the minds of the masses becomes so warped that the pursuit of power is replaced by the notion of modesty so that the ascent to power is staged as popular clarion call, people’s choice with the leader’s reluctance to assume the onus of power. Under these circumstances, the leader may not spurn the pleas of the people. Such maneuvering gives credit to the myth that the leader basks in popular love, which is then replicated at all social levels; by the way, the faith of the people is often absolutely genuine.43
   The people love me, I simply can’t help it. Recently, the chairman of the Executive Committee of the city of Ganja decided to erect my statue in front of the premises of the City’s Executive Committee. I summoned him and explained that he ought not to do this. He argued for a long time. But I told him: “Erect a statue in mymemory, when I’m gone. If you can do it then”.44
   In fact, the popular faith in the infallibility, salvation mission and veneration of the“Father of the Nation” warrant the security and power of any such authoritarian personality, while negative manifestations in the society get channeled towards external or internal enemies concocted to this end by the very authorities in power. They can be Armenians, Russians, clerics of Iran, corrupt officials, mercenary human rights defenders, people green with envy, but never the “Leader” himself.
   It must be pointed out that anti-Armenian publications and official statements spike in Azerbaijan as the domestic situation escalates to its maximum amid civil unrest, public outcry, natural disasters, corruption scandals, etc., where the“Leader” is called to account for his policy, and the public gaze must be averted.
   To inculcate its ideology, the authoritarian system seeks to sow fear in the society by positioning itself as the guarantor of security. This is the shortest path to achieve goals, which can be defined as state-perpetrated terror tactics within the society itself. Terror tactics call for creating an atmosphereof fear and instabilityor using the existing instability orsecurity needs of the people tosuppressfreedoms andtighten the grip on power.45
   The forces that seek to disrupt the existing status quo get marginalized and labeled as internal enemies with the state machinery cracking down on them amid public condemnation. This process can be described asdomestic terror.
   To keep the information space underа total control and to ensure а trouble-free functioning of the “enemy images”, those in power resort to such tools asmisinformation and disorientation.
   The mass mediaare powerful weapons in the arsenal of propaganda and suit well to advance the current agenda. The authorities that control the mass media and alternative news outlets can influence the public opinion to manipulate it and inculcate the required ideology.
   Misinformationis an action that targets a person and represents a deliberate communication of misleading information concerning the true state of affairs.46
   Misinformation occurs following the chain of events below:47
   • Misleading a specific person or group of persons (even entire nations);
   • Manipulation (of the actions of single person or a group of persons);
   • Shaping of the public opinion on some issue or subject.

   Misleadingrepresents a direct or indirect deception, communication of false, slightly modified or incomplete information which implies its distorting, misinterpreting or taking the information out of its context.
   Manipulationis an influencing technique which directly seeks to re-channel the activities of the people. The following levels of manipulation can be identified:
   • Reinforcing values which serve the interest of the manipulator and already exist in the minds of the people (ideas, attitudes and mindsets);
   • Partial tweaking of attitudes about some event or fact;
   • Fundamental swing of attitudes and mindsets.

   Shaping of a public opinionis a step-by-step process, which involves generating views on some subject, phenomenon or situation, sharing information between people, discussions and debates crystallizing into a public attitude in the minds of the people.
   Other varieties of misinformation arehalf-truths orthedeceit through non-disclosure.48
   The information space of Azerbaijan abounds in examples of such half-truths. One of the best-known and widely advertised of such half-truths is the myth of the notorious UN resolutions49, ignored by Armenians”.
   Armenia has so far not complied with four resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council on the liberation of Nagorno-Karabakh and its adjacent territories.50
   The half-truth lies in the fact none of these resolutions presses any demands on the Republic of Armenia for liberation of the“occupied territories”. These resolutions feature a number of points, the first and foremost of which is the immediate cessation of hostilities. In 1993, at the time when these resolutions were adopted, Azerbaijan went on the offensive and never planned to stop hoping to deliver a counter blow and reclaim the territories that had been lost before 1993.
   The UN Security Council came up with this request as early as on April 30 1993 in its first resolution No. 822. However, a full year elapsed with another three resolutions issued, but thefirst resolution remained without compliance. The bloodshed continued swelling the number of displaced persons. The ceasefire“without delay” could not imply lingering till May 1994. With such persistent failure to abide by the resolutions of the UN Security Council, can it be claimed that they were complied with in a timely fashion? Which of the two parties breached this cardinal requirement of all resolutions and must bear the primary responsibility for failing to abide by their provisions and becoming the cause of almost all other demands aborted and leading to a massive non-compliance with UN Security Council resolutions?
   Of course, no party is free from error but Azerbaijan can rightfully claim the“first prize” in this matter. Even as the country was losing control over its territories, the leadership of Azerbaijan – both Elchibey and Aliyev – persevered in their attempts to score a military breakthrough on the front-line and resolve the conflict by sheer force. Relying on force alone, they ought not to neglect the fact that it might put at risk their own territories, thus becoming oblivious of their shared responsibility for the emergence and expansion of the occupied territories. In its turn, the occupation forced Azerbaijan into the vicious circle of rejected and failed peacebuilding initiatives. Over the years of the Russian mediation, the parties contributed to creating an entire calendar of violations of the ceasefire, derogations from similar agreements and other misjudged peace-building efforts (this is reflected in Resolution No. 884 in a circumlocutory language).51
   This means that the existence of these resolutions is not disputed, yet taking their provisions out of their context and thereby completely changing the spirit and the letter of the document along with tardy demands for compliance, represent a blatant demonstration of half-truths or downright lies.
   This being said, the most common form of misinformation in Azerbaijan consists in distorting information by means of small additions, insertions of text or paraphrases of the original wording.
   Azerbaijani website Trend.az: WHO– selling organs of the Azerbaijani prisoners of war by Armenia is unacceptable.The commercial sale of human organs is absolutely inadmissible and is in absolute contravention of the human rights law. This statement was made to journalists by the head of the Committee on Strategic Programs and Special Projects of the European Regional Committee of the World Health Organization (WHO), Mr. Agis Tsouros who thus adopted a stance on the sale of organs obtained from Azerbaijani prisoners of war by Armenia.52
   In reality, as reported by other information agencies of Azerbaijan (e.g. apa.az) the quote looks different and does not concern the position of Tsouros on Armenia or Azerbaijani prisoners of war but covers instead the general subject of illegal transplantology:“A. Tsouros noted that the transplantation of human organs in the global health care system is done in strict compliance with the law. Such operations are inadmissible, if they circumvent the law. The United Nations also speaks against the illegal transplantation of human organs or even their legitimate commercial sale”.53
   Or, it may be a contradiction between a loud heading and the gist of the source statement.
   Richard Morningstar: Growing drugs on the occupied territories proves true.The United States opposes the cultivation, transport and sale of drugs in any part of the world.“I am not familiar with all the facts on this issue. I do not possess any supporting information. However, we must be confident that all these thoughts and conjectures reflect the truth,” said the ambassador.54
   Here, the words of the ambassador Morningstar are used in a heading so as to imply that he claims knowledge of illicit cultivation of drugs in Nagorno-Karabakh and confirms this information. While it is obvious from the wording of his direct quote that he is not fully familiar with the facts, and their veracity must be checked.
   The main goal of this misinformation process consists in eliciting the required emotional response from the audience, in which the people lose their ability to think reasonably, assess critically and analyze the information they are presented with. Any attempt to understand, clarify or investigate the events is balked at the outset by exerting pressure on the author through defamation, derision, physical action, arrest or even assassination.
   In 2007, criminal proceedings were instigated against theAzerbaijanijournalist Eynulla Fatullayev for a tentative to revise the official position of Azerbaijan on the tragedy of Khojaly.55 Following a trip to Armenia and Azerbaijan, he published a series of articles in the weekly“Realny Azerbaijan” entitled “Karabakh Diary”, where he voiced his confidence over the fact that a corridor for refugees did really exist, otherwise, the population of Khojaly could not find their way out of the encirclement. He also expressed the view that the Popular Front of Azerbaijan may be responsible for opening fire against civilian non-combatants for political reasons.
   As a result, he was sentenced to 8 years and was released after four years of imprisonment.
   Disorientationconsists in misleading the public, propagating fallacious misconceptions and shifting value benchmarks. One common technique of disorienting the adversary or one’s own society consists in “decapitating” a group by discrediting, demonizing or dehumanizing the leader of the opponent group and his/her activities.
   A resident of Khojaly, a town razed to ground by Armenians in 1992, claims that he was tortured by the current Armenian president R. Kocharyan56.“I passed out after I took a severe beating from Robert Kocharyan; ever since, I have problems with my eyesight. The entire world must know the instigator who was behind the tragedy of Khojaly and who poses as a democrat,” said Gulali Binaliyev. According to him, on the day when the town was occupied by Armenian forces, he was taken hostage along with his family and suffered torture at the hands of the current Armenian president Robert Kocharyan”.57
   “The Armenian Catholicos Garegin II is just another terrorist and a bloodthirsty thug as the head of the State Serzh Sargsyan”. This statement was made by Elman Mamedov, a deputy of Milli Majlis from Khojaly in his interview to SalamNews. The deputy stressed that he did not expect any positive results from the meeting between the Haji Allahshükür Hummat Pashazadeh, the head of the Caucasian Muslims Office, and Garegin II: “Allahshükür Pashazadeh is a man of faith while Garegin II is another bloodthirsty thug just like Serzh Sargsyan”.58
   “It is very shameful that these people claim to represent the intellectuals of Azerbaijan. Their actions can be qualified as high treason. We do not view them as representatives of our country’s intellectuals and demand that Rustam Ibragimbekov and Akram Aylisli be declared persona non grata,” the local media quote a young party official.59
   When coupled with a visualization technique meant to bring about an emotional surge in the target audience, results can be obtained both rapidly and efficiently.
   The American psychologist Victor Kagan60 holds that despite its irrational nature xenophobia may be also upheld by quite positive processes. The human being never commits deeds that appear as bad, evil, inappropriate or criminal etc. The mind always transforms any such perspective action into something positive. The motivation of any such deed undergoes a substitution, change, shift and an outward modification portraying it with positive and possibly heroic overtones.
   This is precisely the process that Azerbaijan implements through its state machinery. It is clear that the murder of a sleeping person (or an enemy for that matter) is a dishonorable deed. Yet, a slight shift of accents in the rhetoric from“sleeping man” to “the man who desecrated our flag” оr “the feats of Ramil breathed in a new life” may warrant a positive public appraisal.
   The political establishment of Azerbaijan chose armenophobia as its weapon in seeking to wrestle the Azerbaijani society into consolidation (assimilation process of ethnic minorities), to minimize the risks of a schism within the country (clan stratification and strife) and to re-channel the popular outcry.
   2. The historical axis
   Originating, evolving and spiraling among the Caucasian Tatars at the turn of the 20th century along the same tracks as anti-Semitism in Russia,armenophobia now represents an institutional component of Azerbaijan’s modern statehood.61 This means that we come to deal with a case of a profound rejection of Armenians in a context where the Azerbaijani perceive them today as educated, successful and wealthy people, whose very existence“stripped” the indigenous majority of their privileges and turned them into “uneducated”, “disadvantaged”, “impoverished” people and so forth.
   Historically, Armenians became the axis, around which the ethnic and national identity of Azerbaijanis evolved62. At each point in history, the political and social discourse, the statements of public figures and researchers drew contrasting comparisons between the Muslim identity and Armenians.
   The Armenian population with its relatively higher standard of living and higher level of education was seen by the local Muslims as alien and hostile which far from constituting any threat to their survival became a source of permanent sense of“inferiority” further exacerbated by the satirical, public and social discourse of the scant Muslim (Azerbaijani)63 intellectuals.
   The profuse literary works, political and social discourse, pamphlets and satire, which laid bare their own backwardness, obscurantism and the absence of a national identity, mainly used comparison and contrast with the Armenians, rarely Russians and Jews, but were far from favoring the Muslim (Azerbaijani) population.
   Overall, three main levels can be identified in the Azerbaijani perception of Armenians:
   • Idealizing Armenians and setting them as a role models;
   • Regarding Armenians as equals;
   • Debasing and rejecting Armenians on the brink of an unabashed policy of xenophobia and bigotry against Armenians.

   Pre-Soviet period
   At the turn of the 20th century writers, public and artistic figures marked a clear borderline in their perception of Armenians and the local Muslim (Azerbaijani) population by viewing Armenians as a standard and example to emulate; this tendency is readily traceable in the works of Azerbaijani intellectuals.
   The self-criticism that hinged on a contrasting comparison with Armenians found expression in all significant areas of public and social life. By the early 20th century, the education among the Muslim (Azerbaijani) population was still at a rudimentary level, while regions with the Armenian population had primary schools that had been offering joint education to children of both sexes as early as in the mid-19th century. Thus, the first school opened in Shemakh in 1863. The need to school the children was seen by the local Muslim population as something alien that collided with their customs and traditions and led to a greater exclusion of Armenians.
   In 1875, Hasan bey Zardabi64 addressed his compatriots with these words:“Muslims! Don’t you regret that the whole world, and even our neighbors, seeks enlightenment, while we remain dead in our tracks waiting to “have everything stuffed in our mouths and chewed for us”? Muslims, who care for the fate of their nation, open up your eyes!”65
   Such comparisons and efforts to hoist the Muslim (Azerbaijani) population to the level of Armenians drew from the local population led by the Muslim clerics strong feelings of aggression and rejection towards Armenians. The clergy sought to keep the population within the confines of the ummah66, while the intellectuals fought for the nascent national identity.
   Lack of education was the decisive factor that tilted the scales against the intellectuals and by extension– against Armenians. The latter were frowned upon as catalysts of all woes associated with these changes.
   Here is how the famous composer Uzeyir Hajibekov67 describes the comparison between the Muslims (Azerbaijanis) and Armenians:
   Look, my friend, Armenian or Russian children do not go to school before they turn seven and receive a home education, while Muslim children stay away from school at home even after they turn seven, eight or nine years of age.&lt;…&gt; Armenian or Russian children are nurtured at home by intelligent and educated mothers who put them to sleep and let them out for a walk in due time, who fill their leisure with toys useful for both spirit, morals and physical health. Not a single bad or pernicious word reaches the ears of these children. What do they hear then? Music splendid for the mind and body, stories, poems and legends written specifically for children by famed pedagogues, correct instructive words of their parents, conversations of well-mannered and educated guests who visit their houses. What do they see then? The walls of their homes are decorated with paintings and pictures of flowers that please the eye, there are beautifully illustrated magazines and books on their tables, cleanliness and order surround them and so forth.&lt;…&gt; And what about our children? May Allah have pity on them! All they hear is obscene language, swearing, foul talk and intrigues! What do they see? They see nothing but the evil doings of their elders; they are surrounded by ubiquitous dirt and waste. Places of their games are full of dust and mud, and their playing is about… strangling cats, hurting dogs, dipping mice in oil and setting them ablaze.
   It must be noted that parallels between Armenians were drawn not to“hail Armenians as superior” to Muslims. On the contrary, such parallels were acrimonious along these lines: “we are unlike them”, “we should resemble them”, and “we do nothing to become more educated and civilized like them”.
   Mirza Alakbar Sabir
   Thank God, we are not Armenians, to send our boy to school.
   There, look at our praisedbeanpole of theson-in-lawwho was a swat atschool, and what is there to gain from him?
   No, I won’t allow my baby boy to be schooled! He is still a tot!
   Let my boy continue swearing, he is just but a little one!
   25 August, 190868
   This backfired as phobias in respect of Armenians did not abate; instead, they were heated up and intensified. Considering the illiteracy factor of the population, it can be rightfully claimed that there was virtually no direct link between‘the people and the intellectual elite’, and all communication was mediated through the clergy or a state authority which protected the interests of the business and had a stake in maintaining the ignorance and therefore their ability to control the masses and sought to eliminate their Armeniancompetitors.
   During my stay in Baku I was extremely surprised by the vehement acrimony of foreigners against Armenians; apart from a couple of isolated cases, their sympathies were entirely in favor of Tatars. I must confess that I was impressed by this unanimity. I came to Caucasus without any biased judgment; however, I was inclined to believe that the sufferings of Armenians were greatly exaggerated by the European press which blackwashed Tatars. Agayev to whom I paid a visit convincingly proved the righteousness of Tatars, while the English, Russian and other disinterested observers were almost unanimous in their condemnation of Armenians. Even plain Russian soldiers and policemen who were asked to give their opinion on who was responsible for the unrest responded without the slightest doubt: Armenians. Where racial and religious hatred was white hot, it was hard to weigh all pros and cons at once. I had no choice but to rely on statements of those who knew well this land and seemed neutral. But I gradually came to the conclusion that foreigners were not as unswayed in their judgments as it seemed at first. Let along the Muslim skill of impressing, the position of foreign financial and business circles was influenced by their competition with Armenians. But for Armenians, foreigners could lay their hands on the entire oil industry of this place, instead, they must deal with an able, industrious and resourceful opponents&lt;…&gt; all of the above explains the rancor of foreigners against Armenians. A prominent English factory owner told me quite straightforwardly that all Armenians must be annihilated.69
   The nascent small bourgeoisie under the guiding hand of Pan-Turanian ideologists benefited the ignorance of the population to advance their objectives, i.e. consolidation of the population of various ethnic backgrounds around the idea of the single ethnic self-identification based on the image of Armenian enemy rather than the common religion. The image of the Armenian enemy has become the very impulse that was necessary for the consolidation of the society and formulation of ethnic traits.70
   A. Agayev wrote during the clashes between Armenians and Tatars of 1905-06:“It is thanks to these clashes that all Tatars of Transcaucasia came to realize that they belong to a single kind and related with one another by close ties, and that there is no difference between Tatars of Nakhichevan and Tatars of Baku”.71
   A correspondent of‘Kavkazskoe slovo’ (‘Caucasian Word’) newspaper S. Rafalovich wrote in his memories: “In my presence, the Minister of the Internal Affairs, Behbud Javanshir, said: “Today I received Tagionosov. I told him that it was in the best interests of Armenians not to come pleading to me. When I talk to Armenians, I feel such resentment that I forget myself which is surely to make things worse for Armenians”. When asked why he chose to accept the post of such responsibility, the Minister of the Internal Affairs, Behbud Javanshir responded: “Why? I became a minister only to do away with Armenians”.72
   Dr. Khosrov bey Sultanov (Minister of Agriculture and State Property), along with many others, openly declared that in Azerbaijan there would be either no Armenians altogether, or they would be given the status of the Turkish rayah (rightless creatures).“Armenians have nothing to do here, let them go to their own country”, vehement nationalist voices were heard.73
   Asad Karayev: We rejoice in your success. We have no doubt that the sum of around 100 million allocated from Baku will not be spent without benefit. May Allah bless the power of the money that can do more than mighty troops. Those who know the thinking of Armenians will always know how to become their masters. There is no Armenian who wouldn’t sell everything for money. This nation holds nothing sacred except money. This explains the large number of Armenian spies and agents as in no other country money can achieve as much as in case of Armenians. It is a fact of life. Wretched (poor) Jews are unjustly accused of this.74

   The 20th century– Soviet period
   With higher level of education and with equal conditions and the absence of the need to take personal part in the process of education, ethnonym and alphabet75 creation, historiography, etc., in the context of the rhetoric dictated by the epoch, Armenians came to be viewed as anattained benchmark. This found its expression in the thesis of“Armenian-Azerbaijani equality and brotherhood’’, “friends for centuries” and “companions in arms in the struggle”, etc.
   It must be noted that in daily life and at subconscious level comparison and contrast were still quite common and were later on transferred into the areas of academic studies and administration. The perception of Armenians and the behavioral patterns that ensued formulated at several levels.
   Outward– at the level of slogans and propaganda which were based on communist values and represented as a whole a showcase where recent tragic events came to be termed as “fratricidal war provoked by the tsarist regime”. In this sense, a footnote to the poem by Sabir appearing in a publication in 1983 is quite illustrative.76
   Dedicated to clashes between Armenians andAzerbaijanisprovoked by tsarist regime in Caucasus in 1905 and published in‘Hayat’ newspaper along with the letter of Sabir in which the poet responded to the invitation for cooperation appearing in the newspaper to mark the commencement of its activities. “For people who made a bloodbath” etc.77 The reference is made to the fratricidal massacre between Armenians andAzerbaijanis.78
   Or, the public statements of communist leaders of Azerbaijan:
   Ex-president of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev: Comrades! The entire life, short but vivid and full of profound meaning, the life of a professional revolutionary, versatile party and state activities of Stepan Shahumyan are a symbol of his selfless fight for freedom and the welfare of the working people, for the triumph of the communism ideals.&lt;…&gt; Back in March 1918, Musavatists provoked an anti-Soviet rebellion in Baku intending to quench the Soviet authority. Thanks to the resolute and firm measures taken by Bolsheviks, the rebellion was suppressed. Bolsheviks of Azerbaijan spared no effort in their struggle for the development of socialist revolution in all directions. Despite intrigues of the bourgeois nationalists, in defiance of a mortal danger they propagated in masses– in plants and workshops, in villages and provinces – the truth of the Lenin doctrine. The titanic labor of the chairman of the council of popular commissars of Baku could be seen in all reforms of the commune. Sultan Majid Afandiyev dedicated this figurative statement on him: “Stepan Shahumyan is the guiding hand of the Commune of Baku, its mastermind, knowledge, and thought… The compelling logic of his discourse hit and crushed the enemies of the Commune. He is the favorite leader of the army of oil industry workers”&lt;…&gt; the noble image of Stepan Georgievich Shahumyan is an inspiration for all generations of workers&lt;…&gt;. And today, with pride and love we say that this great son of the Armenian people, Stepan Shahumyan, is also a son of the Azerbaijani people, all peoples of the Transcaucasia, all multinational and united Soviet people (long and thunderous ovation).79
   Latentperception implies the use of administrative resources with clear armenophobic tendencies against the background of‘friendship’, ‘brotherhood’ and ‘solidarity’. This very administrative resource became the instrument of self-assertion in the region and, particularly on Armenian territories, and became the locomotive of the ambition to rewrite one’s own history, to find more ancient roots, ancient statehood, to define one’s own unique place and contribution into the treasury of the human civilization as well as to change the regional demographics. And all this occurred in contrast and comparison with Armenians.
   Ex-president of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev:In the future, we must create works so as they continuously and constantly prove the claims of Azerbaijan to the lands that host today’s Armenia. We must do this. We must pave the way for generations to come.80
   These words uttered back in 1999 are a telltale evidence of the succession of the policy initiated back in the Soviet period as confessed unequivocally by H. Aliev.
   Heydar Aliyev, ex-president of Azerbaijan:“&lt;…&gt; I speak of the period when I was the first secretary and contributed a lot to the development of Nagorno-Karabakh. At the same time I sought to change the demographics of the region. Nagorno-Karabakh raised the issue of establishing an institute, a university there.&lt;…&gt; I thought and I decided to do so. But with one condition; there should be three sectors: Azerbaijani, Russian and Armenian.&lt;…&gt; Azerbaijanis from the neighboring regions were directed not to Baku but there. We also sent Azerbaijanis from the adjoining regions. I took this and other measures trying to increase the number of Azerbaijanis in Nagorno-Karabakh and to crop the number of Armenians.81
   This was reflected not only in words but in actions: curtailing the rights and possibilities of Armenians as an ethnic unit to favor the Azerbaijani population. This was not the first but the most flagrant fact of mass discrimination in the history of the Soviet Azerbaijan, and it was quite purposeful and targeted.

   Perception in the daily life:along with the development and progress of Azerbaijan, the country became caught between two worlds. On the one hand, there was Baku with its Europe-oriented upper class with its flexibility, moderation and openness; on the other hand, was the remaining part of the country, a huge social stratum that was retrograde and remained at the level of‘ummah’, with its typical apathy and impassiveness towards the secular authority, with the traditional practice of docility and the customary religiousness.
   A very illustrative example of xenophobia in daily life is described in an autobiographic essay by Vahid Ghazi.82
   My grandmother used to tell us stories:“When we were kids, Armenians massacred many Turkic people. At the time, they called us Turkic. They killed us everywhere. They cut off the nipples of the women, laced them in strings and threw into our trenches. Those who could not stand it and stepped forward were shot down. They tied hot samovars on the backs of the people and made them run…”
   But my grandmother never told me:“You must also hate Armenians!” I know, I heard that Armenians bring up their children with a feeling of hatred to Turkic peoples andAzerbaijanis. We did not have any such practice. The hatred links to memory and ours retained no vestige of it.
   It must be noted that in their interactions with Azerbaijani who referred tofactsbased on their personal experience, all tentative of the Armenian side to hear a single confirmed example of Armenian children brought up“in the spirit of hatred to all Turkic” remained without response.
   The testimony narrating the reaction of ordinary Azerbaijanis to the devastating earthquake of 1988 in Armenia is quite illustrative in the context of aggressive armenophobia.
   General Alexander Lebed:The events unfolded with a relative calm up to December 7. In the evening of December 7, the news release of‘Vremya’ announced that Armenia suffered a tremendous earthquake.&lt;…&gt;. The silence was suddenly broken by a sound, or to be more precise, by an entire roar of sounds that merged into a single general howl of triumph and glee that increased in intensity.&lt;…&gt; In an attempt to ascertain the nature of these sounds, I went out on the balcony along with another five or six officers.
   &lt;…&gt; On the opposite side of the street, right across the building of the Regional Executive Committee there was a big nine-story residential block. All windows in the building were alight without exception; people on the balconies yelled, screamed, hooted and roared with wild laughter. Down went empty bottles, burning paper and some other objects. This nine-story residential block was not alone in its expression of cannibalistic mirth. The picture was identical in all adjoining buildings. The entire district beamed and howled in a frantic frenzy.
   People that considered themselves civilized, educated to a certain extent and well-mannered, some of them supposedly religious and following the covenants of the Quran were united in this inappropriate barbarian celebration of a tremendous human tragedy. I felt a strong urge to cross out this cursed residential block with a long burst of my assault rifle. This could be the only way to make people degraded to apes claim back their humanity. How many merry, kind reasonable, hospitable people I met among Azerbaijanis! The discourse of many of them was so full of passion and conviction! Where have all these reasonable and kind people gone? How could it be possible that they all dissolved in this scum yielding to an impulse, the extent of heinousness of which is hard to define? This was a riddle to me. There can be only one interim and sad conclusion: any stage of civilization, any upper form of social and economic life is separated from feudalism and even the savage horde by a single step backwards, only one step… It takes just certain conditions, and people immediately prove themselves capable of showing that they climbed down the trees only very recently.83
   Vardges Bagratovich Artsruni, head of the construction complex of Armenia: The Soviet Union still existed, and help streamed into the disaster zone from all parts of the country. Azerbaijan too had sent some fuel tanks by railway. The fuel tanks bore writing:“Congratulations with the earthquake! We wish you another one!” The train was sent back, and it became clear that there would be no reconciliation. This is impossible to forget. A little later, it became known that trains carrying food and humanitarian aid which passed by railway through Azerbaijan were rolled over to reserve tracks at Azerbaijani stations. Refrigerators were turned off for several days, and after meat and other foodstuffs became spoiled the train was sent on into the disaster zone. Mix trucks carrying cement were filled with water and after staying idle for 2 or 3 days were sent into the disaster zone. The construction and other machinery loaded onto platforms reached the regions of Armenia hit by the earthquake not only with shattered windshields but with everything else that could be broken (doors, windows, etc.). Following that, full blockade of the railway and road communication ensued.84
   In December 1988, Armenia was hit by a disastrous earthquake that destroyed entire cities and claimed a death toll of many thousand lives. The entire world stretched a helping hand with humanitarian cargoes reaching Armenia from different parts of the world. Azerbaijan too sent trains, but they were loaded with crutches and nails for coffins.85
   The parallel existence of three separate sets of values which were equally fostered and promoted ultimately led to an internal conflict within the Azerbaijani society which at the outburst of the first conflicts with Armenia revealed itself in line with thenon-Sovietideology instilled in the minds of the people in the following fashion: to take revenge on Armenians, to show them their place, to destroy them.

   Decline of the Soviet period– Independent Azerbaijan
   By the late twentiеth century as the Soviet Union collapsed, with a conflict between Armenian and Azerbaijan and a de-facto military, another round of rethinking history, self-identification, comparison (or contrast) with Armenians commenced, but this time it was on different precepts. Now Armenians were portrayed in a new quality as “not indigenous people”, as “weeds that must be pulled out”, as a “cancerous tumor” etc.
   We shall not dwell on the chronological order of the conflict and all ensuing consequences, but we shall examine the ideology that served as the background against which these events unfolded. Considering the fact that the Soviet press was still censored, nationalistic ideas were instilled in the minds of the people through theideologist-consumersystem on public rallies, in self-published leaflets or through rumors.
   The first public rallies were held with anti-Armenian slogans of Khalil Rza Uluturk, the poet of freedom and patriotism:

   Original86Bakımızı əzizləyək.Əqrəblərdən təmizləyək!Şölə versin bu ləl, mərcanErmənisiz Azərbaycan!

   TranslationLet us cherish our Bakuand purge it of scorpions!Let it glim, our ruby of Azerbaijanwithout Armenians!”

   The Russian historian Andrey Polonskiy in his articleIslam and Establishment of National Self-identity by the 1980-90swrites that“Azerbaijan had a less significant share of relaxed humanism compared to the majority of the Soviet republics. The crisis of Karabakh and increasing level of armenophobia contributed to shaping a well-defined image of the enemy which had a known impact on the character of this new identity (it was originally based on aggression and was victory-oriented)”.87
   The tendencies and notions of denigrating Armenians and repudiating completely any contexts, comparisons or benchmarks with them going as far as to deny their very presence in the region were recalled to life and put into practice. The new historiography that swarmed with unabashed falsifications ranked very high in this policy of instilling and propagating armenophobia.
   The most favored practice of Azerbaijani authors was renaming medieval Armenian political figures, historians and writers who lived and worked in Karabakh turning them into Albanians. In this way, Movses Kaghankatvatsi who had written in the Armenian language metamorphosed into the Albanian historian Moisey Kalankatuyski. The same lot was reserved for the Armenian prince Sahly ibn-Sumbat (Armenians preferred to call him Sahl Smbatyan) who underwent a transmutation becoming half-Albanian, half-Azerbaijani.88
   The academician Farida Mamedova who is a fiery preacher of the myth on Albanian (that is Azerbaijani) origin of Karabakh abuses the fact that the Azerbaijani readership does not know Armenian to deliberately mislead it. Thus, in her book entitledThe History of Caucasian Albania, as evidence of“Armenian falsifications” she publishes a photograph of a stone slab carrying an inscription in Armenian which is rotated at 180 degrees89 and tagged as a“fragment of a genuine (Albanian) slab from the church in the village of Dash Salakhli of Qazakh region”90. The inscription is so crisp that any person familiar with Armenian and Armenian script can read it without any special training.
 [Картинка: i_001.jpg] 

   Without dwelling on numerous scholarly self-contradictions,91 we must only underscore that using her feigned knowledge of the Armenian language and misleading her readership is the keynote of her entire scientific activity and scholarly works. In this way, in an attempt to prove the Albanian origins of Gandzasar Monastery92 located in Nagorno-Karabakh, she resorts to the same trick used earlier and passes the Armenian language for Albanian:
   I saw the inscription in Gandzasar in 1978 when I was there along with Azerbaijani scientists accompanied by Armenians of Karabakh for this very purpose. On my way there I already knew of the existence of this inscription in the Gandzasar monastery made at the behest of Hassan Jalal which reads specifically as follows:“… I built this cathedral for my Albanian people”(in Albanian:– imaguvaniazgn).93
   The scholar that claims knowledge of the Armenian and‘Albanian’ languages affirms thatimaguvaniazgis an Albanian word while, actually, it contains three Armenian words:‘im’– my (իմ),‘aguanits’from Aghvan (Աղվանից) and‘azg’clan (ազգ) merged into a single word ‘in Albanian language’, and with the same meaning for that matter. But the most interesting thing is that no such inscription has ever existed in Gandzasar.94 This is a blatant example of an egregious falsification of the modern times.
   The school curriculum was purged from Armenian authors (this particularly refers to the works of the first people’s writer of Azerbaijan, Alexander Shirvanzadeh95). The literary works by Azerbaijani authors of the turn of the 19th century viewed as classics of Azerbaijani literature which portrayed Armenians in the positive light and contained appeals for brotherhood and peace (works of Sabir, Hajibekov96, and Mirza Jalil97) were expunged.
   Enlightenment advocates of the early 20th century were replaced by the partisans of ideology and propaganda that appealed to a national unity balked by Armenians.
   “Glory to the heroes of Sumgait” was the slogan of the public rallies bringing together thousands of people in the city of Baku.
   Bakhtiyar Vahabzadeh, people’s writer of Azerbaijan:The time will come when we will realize the courage and heroic deeds of plainAzerbaijaniguys in Sumgait who started the purge of our country from the Armenian filth.98
   In his book entitledPolygon of Azerbaijan, Aris Kazinyan notes an essential role of rumors as a main propaganda weapon of all times in shaping the behavior of ignorant popular masses.99
   It is very illustrative that at the beginning of the past century many journalists, missionaries and diplomats who worked either in the Ottoman Empire or in the Transcaucasia noted that the very fact of rumors about violent acts against Muslims at the hands of Armenian was the symptom of a forthcoming massacre, an anticipation of new Armenian pogroms. There is an amazing continuity not only in the rites of violence, but also in the pretexts for perpetrating it. On the eve of every Armenian massacre Ottomans and Turkish Tatars spread false rumors about carnage of Muslim populations at the hands of‘gyavurs’ in some remote areas, about Armenian plans to attack Turkish districts in specific cities.&lt;…&gt; In 1905, the newspaper Tiflis Leaflet (Тифлиский Листок) published a report on the situation in the Eastern Caucasia: “In the mid-August, the provinces of Aresh, Jevanshir and other places were upset by a gruesome rumor: it was claimed that Armenians attacked peaceful nomads near the village of Vank and massacred many women and children. Three hundred armed horsemen from Aghdam moved into the area only to find out that there had been a skirmish about seven stolen sheep, with two Tatars killed and several Armenians wounded. Such conflicts happened every year and involved more severe bloodshed. But the formal pretext was found (Tiflis Leaflet, 21.08.1905)100.
   On the eve of the Sumgait massacre, the same traditional scenario came into play: certain individuals appeared in Baku, Sumgait and other regions of Azerbaijan telling the stories ofAzerbaijanipogroms in Kapan (Kafan) region of Armenia and displaced compatriots.
   A similar scenario was staged in January 1990 during the massacre of Armenians in Baku. An eyewitness of these events, the Colonel V. Anokhin reported:“I am sure that the more fantastic the lie is, the higher are the odds that people will be taken in. The deception techniques are sometimes monstrous. For instance, a public rally is held in the neighboring district to commemorate 1000 dead in Kurdamir. When I tell the residents of Kurdamir aboutit, they are astounded; they surely know that there is not a single loss of life there. However, they themselves go around telling stories of forty thousand Azerbaijanis killed in Baku”.101
   As a result, all things that caused the alarm and concern of Azerbaijani thinkers again led to the frustration of Azerbaijani intellectuals rather than consolidated it.
   Mirmehdi Agaoghlu, writer:My views of Armenians were shaped amid the famous slogan:“He, who does not sit, is Armenian”. The events on the central square began with millions of people squatting and standing up following this command. Just like the grown-ups, we, the kids, had a slogan of our own: “Wherever you see Armenian, hit him on the head with a pail”. We had but one enemy: the Armenian enemy. We heard this propaganda from the Azerbaijani television, we were taught this at school. The Armenian ‘dyga’102 were our enemies. We grew up amid this hatred towards Armenians. The state machinery of propaganda portrayed Armenians as a fictitious people that never had statehood, parasites and cheap prostitutes who lived off other countries.&lt;…&gt; Do you want to know the truth? In the past 20–25 years, your own historians and authors of propaganda told you lies. On the top of it, Armenian sources also indulge in exaggeration. Now try to distinguish fiction from reality. Every time I saw Armenian actors, scientists or representatives of other spheres of life on Russian channels, I felt resentment but still asked myself the question: If they are indeed such a tiny little nation that we can easily be done with, why do we come across them everywhere? Why are we not like them?
   So, gradually the hatred inside me transformed into a complex of inferiority. And I felt angry because I had been deceived all this time.103
   Journalist Farheddin Hajibeyli: Why do we always suffer a defeat? There is no one to blame except us, boycott YOURSELVES!
   Nobody is head over ears in love with black eyebrows and eyes of Armenians. They accomplished what they have today after decades of hard work. Let us consider them our enemies cursing and abusing them, but for the sake of justice we must recognize their right to all these victories, as they have been accomplished due to their intellect and foresight.&lt;…&gt; Now, let us be honest: who is more worthy of victories? Us or them?104
   After the country’s independence, the Azerbaijani quest for national identity and consolidation through inculcation and cultivation of the image of the external Armenian enemy by manipulating the public mind was given free rein throughself-expression.
   3. Armenians in Baku
   One of the main propaganda tricks employed by the official Baku in disseminating the myth of its tolerance and commitment to multiculturalism– the one that becomes a fertile ground for cultivation and indoctrination of armenophobia – rests upon the assumption that 30 thousand Armenians live in Azerbaijan.
   This myth of30 thousands Armenians in Bakuis quite actively exploited by the Azerbaijani propaganda. The late national leader Heydar Aliyev was the first to come up with this statement.105 Later, this figure fluctuated depending on the situation at hand and the needs of the day. For example, in 2008 Ziyafat Asgarov, the vice-speaker of the parliament stated:“Presently, there are approximately 50,000 Armenians living in Azerbaijan, and they face no problems”.106 In his turn, Araz Alizadeh, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Azerbaijan,curtailsthe number of Armenians by 10 thousands and brings up a figure of 40,000 Armenians living in the country.107 In the meantime, Elnur Aslanov, the head of the Division of Political Analysis and Information Support of the President’s Administration of Azerbaijan speaks about some 20,000 Armenians.108 Ganira Pashayeva, member of the Azerbaijani parliament, confined herself to invoking“thousands of Armenians” without specifying their precise number.109
   Meantime, according to the official census of 1999, there were about 645 Armenians living on the territories controlled by Azerbaijan,110 while the census of 2009 placed the number of Armenians at 193.111 In this reference, the Azerbaijani side brandishes the argument that the Armenians who live in Azerbaijan do so in a stateless capacity and, therefore, are not covered in the census.
   It must be noted that this refusal to issue documents on the ground of ethnicity,112 which dates back some 20 years, is in itself indicative of an ongoing apartheid and segregation policy against Armenians.
   In the studyEthnicity as a social status and stigma: Armenians in the post-soviet Azerbaijan, published by Heinrich Böll Foundation,113 Sevil Huseinova notes that after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, ethnic Armenians who had lived in Baku were stripped of their status of equal members of the local urban community. This was determined not only by ethnic demarcation of the population. Their status of equal community members was lost during the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, as Armenian ethnicity virtually became synonymous with the concepts of enemy and alien. This occurred as the ongoing conflict came to stigmatize the ethnic identity of Armenians. Being Armenian and living in Azerbaijan represented a contradiction and no longer met the standard of a‘good citizen’. The self-perception of Armenians living in Baku crystallized in this context.
   In addition, the ideology stating that the stigmatized Armenian residents of Baku constitute a threat or provoke negative emotions permeates the information space of Baku and Azerbaijan, as a whole. The borderline between stigmatized andcorrectpersons is clearly marked.“The media and the daily life swarm with concepts of stigma: “historical enemies”, “a small Armenian bastard”, the derogatory term “Khachik” and so forth. You can say that ethnicity becomes the quality which sets apart the Armenians of Baku and distinguishes them from the other residents of the city and other citizens of Azerbaijan”.114
   Following a spate of pogroms on the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan and attempts to completely purge the country of ethnic Armenians, some of them had to remain in Azerbaijan for various reasons.
   They can be conventionally divided into several categories since they often migrate from one category into another.
   1. Elderly, sick and lonely peopleare those who were not in position to leave the country and did not envisage their lives elsewhere, as Azerbaijan was the place where they had been born and raised; they had no other place to go and no one to host them.
   There are no data on the number and later fates of those who had been stranded on the territory of Azerbaijan. However, it can be reasonably assumed that by now most of them have already passed away due to their health condition, age and lack of proper care and social protection.
   2. Persons bound by intermarriage:those included under this category can be ranked as the most‘problem-free’ as they enjoy protection from their husbands and children. As Sevil Huseinova notes in her research,115 these were Armenian women who had married the Azerbaijanis, and whose husbands and children could warrant their safety. As a rule, their lives were less endangered during the pogroms, their houses were not seized, and many of them could keep their jobs and property.
   However, as evidenced by scarce publications and reports by international organizations, these women, too, had to face manifestations of extreme, moderate or latent xenophobia. For personal safety reasons, they had to alter their appearance116, last and first names, place of residence and work; they also concealed their origin to fully accommodate the realities of the modern Azerbaijan, but on the whole they had no regrets about the choice they made.
   Liana– Leila:“By then, I had already formally changed my name to Leïla. But shortly after, our new neighbors, who were Azerbaijanis banished from Armenia, learned about my Armenian descent. At first, they shot angry glances at me. When they saw me passing in the street, they used to hurl abuse at my back so that I could hear it. Their resentment was understandable as they had lost their homes and shelter, just like the Armenians, who had been forced to leave the city, in which they had lived for decades. I understood why they did not treat me well. But this lasted only a short time. Time heals all, as I learned first-hand. Our neighbors accepted me, and we have had very good relations,” tells Leïla.&lt;&gt; Nobody in Lankaran, except her husband’s family, knows of Leïla’s Armenian descent.117
   However, this relatively unscathed category of women includes those who found themselves marooned in the Azerbaijani society and had to go through their share of trials and tribulations reserved for Armenians. Manush Khujoyan, the representative of theSaved Relicsorganization, told the story of the sister of one of their organization members who had remained in Baku.
   “During the Sumgait pogroms, as everybody was fleeing, the husband of that woman had convinced her to stay behind, vouching for her safety; however, with the advent of the Karabakh war, he immediately divorced her. This woman shares the lot of many other Armenians in Azerbaijan and lives in very poor conditions, without any documents. To this day, she holds a soviet passport”. The ‘Saved Relics’ wanted to help this woman come to Armenia with the mediation of the Red Cross; however, she refused to contact the Red Cross as she seriously feared for her life.118
   3.The termHomo soveticusrefers to those who had hoped that the“tide” would subside, and the things would resume their ordinary course. Account must be taken of the fact, that the pogroms were perpetrated as the Soviet Union was still alive and kicking, and it could not possibly occur to a number of people that the soviet government would not find a way toremedy the situation. A year later, as the Soviet Union disintegrated, the ensuing economic collapse and the war against Nagorno-Karabakh Republic made travel impossible as crossing the border meant disclosing one’s ethnic origin and therefore was unsafe.
   Kamalya Yesina, Karina Sargsyan:She wanted to leave, but stayed. At first, she thought that things would get to normal, and it was only a nightmare. But with every new day, the situation spiraled. Neighbors and relatives left the country. Memories of past conversations rushed back.“Didn’t I foretell this situation,” said her uncle in one of those ‘kitchen conversations’, and he was right.&lt;…&gt; The decade of the 1980s drew to its end… Sitting in an empty kitchen, she answered the questions of her own monologue. And they were so numerous. There could be but one answer: pack up things and leave. But where and why?&lt;…&gt;“Good that my parents didn’t live to see these dreadful days. At the turn of the 1990s, the neighbors left. For good. Tears poured profusely. Hopelessness, fear and bitterness”, recalls Karina. Her relatives who lived next door left back in January 1990.&lt;…&gt; As they left, she knew for sure that she would stay in Baku.&lt;…&gt; Her last name is Russian, her children are considered Russians, and Russians are spared in Azerbaijan,” and they will spare me too,” she reasoned.&lt;…&gt; Today, Kamalya Yesina has no regrets about her staying. She simply could not leave. But she confides that these years have claimed a heavy toll on her looks… prematurely.119
   Zhanna Shahmuradyan:Baku. Two women of Armenian descent will receive identity documents from the Republic of Azerbaijan.&lt;…&gt; Earlier the applicant Zh. Shahmuradyan filed a court petition asking to issue an identity document for her daughter. The applicant motivated her claim with the fact that she was born in Baku in 1966 and had lived there ever since. In 1983, she was issued a soviet passport for the last time. She never left the territory of Azerbaijan, but the police turned down her request for evident reasons. In 1992, she met an Azerbaijani man and lived with him for a while in a common-law marriage. They had a daughter named Ayla. However, as the girl’s mother had no documents, the child was not issued a birth certificate. In the meanwhile, Zh. Shahmuradyan submitted evidence to the Administrative-Economic Court № 1 of Baku attesting the fact that she and her daughter indeed had lived in Azerbaijan for many years. As a result, the court instructed the Main Passport, Registration and Migration Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to issue documents to these women. “After we receive the documents, I will first of all travel to Russia to meet my mother whom I haven’t seen for long. But I will have to return to my daughter”, says the woman.120
   Nora Vartanesovna Varagyan:After the ruling of the Court of Appeals of Baku in respect of the Police Department of Nasimi district, the applicant Nora Vartanesovna Varagyan filed a cassation appeal to the Supreme Court. Presently, the case is examined by Asad Mirzoyev, Civil Board member of the Supreme Court. The cassation will be examined on May 8.
   It must be noted that in 1991, in the first years of the armed aggression of Armenia against Azerbaijan, Nora Vartanesovna Varagyan left the place of her residential registration121 in Nasimi district. Subsequently, she was not registered at any other domicile. In 2007, she filed an application with the Passport Office of the Police Department of Nasimi district to receive an identity document. But the Passport Office of the Police Department of Nasimi district turned down her application since her registration as resident had been ended, after which N. Varagyan filed a complaint in the local court against the actions of the official of the Police Department of Nasimi district. The Nasimi District Court and the Baku Court of Appeals ruled to deny her claim.122
   4. Persons completely integrated into the Azerbaijani societyand not wishing to live elsewhere. They are linked to the Armenian ethnicity in name only, but not in self-awareness. An example: The father of Elvira Movsesyan who doomed his family and children to decades of trials and tribulations, or Anzhela Oganova.
   Anzhela Oganova:“I love my city so much. Not for a second did I want to leave the place,” said Anzhela Oganova as we met.&lt;…&gt; In 1992, she was forced to quit her job.&lt;…&gt;“She came running to the Office of the Helsinki Citizens’ Assembly and voiced her complaint: she was tormented and battered by her neighbors,” tells Sayad. After her mother died, Anzhela had to face a problem that proved unsolvable. She had to register her apartment in her name. It was not even an apartment, but a room in a communal apartment that she shared with other people. But her neighbors had already privatized the remaining portion of that apartment, and now they had to boot and drum out this lonely and helpless woman driving her away from the room she occupied.&lt;…&gt; The Civil Registry Office refused to accept her documents because Anzhela was Armenian. Her problems aggravated. Later on, her neighbors burst into her room and severely brutalized her. The only one she could call was Sayad.“When I called the ambulance and mentioned her name, they refused to come over. Then I had to call again and give them my own mother’s first and second names”, told us Sayad.123
   Elvira Movsesyan:Elvira Vladimirovna Movsesyan is one of such people.&lt;…&gt; For several years now, she has been trying to leave Azerbaijan, without any success. Elvira has no documents and therefore, she is next to no one. She was born in 1968 in Sharur District of Nakhichevan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (now: Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic of Azerbaijan). She was born to Armenian father and Azerbaijani mother.&lt;…&gt; In 1990, her father traveled to Armenia to figure out the situation there. After staying there for about a month, he realized that he was not welcome in Armenia as his wife was Azerbaijani. In addition, he had no knowledge of either Russian or Armenian and could speak only Azerbaijani.&lt;…&gt; Shortly after that, my brothers got a visit from the law-enforcement officers. They told them to leave immediately threatening to arrest them on false charges and have them sentenced to lengthy imprisonment&lt;…&gt;. Our neighbors divided in two factions. Some of them helped us, while others were bellicose and requested that we leave.&lt;…&gt; We could not leave the house and were stuck indoors.&lt;…&gt; In 1999, Elvira decided to take her mother’s last name. “Our mother, a poor old woman, put together all the necessary paperwork, but passport department refused to take them. The authorities did not even examine the documents. Moreover, they took Elvira’s Soviet passport along with the paperwork that her mother had put together.124
   No one, not even Azerbaijani researchers125, know the real number of such people and their subsequent fate. Yet, a small number of publications and reports prepared by international organizations can give a glimpse of their living conditions.
   In Baku, the paramedics of the Ministry of Emergency Situations discovered the body of an elderly Armenian woman.The paramedics of the Ministry of Emergency Situations discovered a body of an elderly woman in Surakhany District of Baku. As 1news.az was informed by the press service of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, their hot-line 112 received an alert that Rosa Baykovna Bagdasarova (born in 1934) had not answered a knocks on the door and telephone calls for a long time. The rescue team of the Ministry arrived quickly on site. They penetrated R. Bagdasarova’s apartment on the sixth floor through the balcony of a neighboring apartment. In the apartment, they found the lifeless body of its owner. A medical team was called in to certify the death. The Police Department of Surakhany District informed 1news.az that the 79-year-old woman was an ethnic Armenian and died of natural causes.126
   After examining the problems of ethnic Armenians living in Azerbaijan, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) in its report for 2011127 states that the number of people of Armenian descent in Azerbaijan fluctuates between 700 and 30,000128 persons. These people are divested of the opportunity to exercise their rights as citizens of Azerbaijan and do not enjoy social protection. They never applied to receive Azerbaijani passports in exchange for Soviet passports and today can be virtually described as stateless persons.
   Considering that the report reflects the official statements, this last point that the persons in question never applied to receive documents of their own accord is quite contestable. The cases of Zhanna Shahmuradyan and Elvira Movsesyan attest to the contrary; they duly applied to receive documents, but were turned down. As a result, one of them filed a court petition, and the other had to break the law and use the documents of another person. And these are not isolated cases. The Azerbaijani press reports another 30 court petitions to obtain a passport.129
   In Azerbaijan, ethnic Armenians face threats in their daily lives. Born in mixed families of Armenians and Azerbaijanis, they prefer to take up the last name of the Azerbaijani parent to avoid bureaucratic hassles, and those who are unable to do so seek to prove their‘Azerbaijani descent’ in a court of law to be allowed to integrate into the society. The case of Firuza Bagirova130 provides an illustrative example; at an advanced age of 74, she was forced to repudiate her Armenian father and portray her mother in what the traditional morality of the Caucasus views as disgrace only to be allowed to leave the country. The name of her Armenian father appearing in her identification documents keeps 74-year-old Bagirova stranded in Azerbaijan.
   A 74-year-old woman in Baku renounces her Armenian stepfather, and the sum of 6,000 USD paid in legal fees is lost. In 1938, Halima Bagirova, pregnant at the time, left her Azerbaijani husband Isu Jafar-oghli and eloped with an Armenian named Khoren Khachaturyan. In the same year, her daughter, Firuza Bagirova was born, and in the birth certificate, H. Bagirova indicated the name of Isa Jafarov as the father of her child. However, later as Kh. Khachaturyan received the documents, he introduced changes in them and indicated his name as the child’s father. “Therefore, some of my documents indicate Isa and some others mention Khoren as the name of my father, in the remaining documents my father’s name is left blank”&lt;…&gt; Meanwhile, 74-year-old Firuza Bagirova reports that she is not allowed to leave the territory of Azerbaijan because of the name of her Armenian father appearing in her identification documents.“I traveled all over Azerbaijan. I want to get back the name of my Azerbaijani father to be able to travel to Meshed and Karbala”.
   The absence of documents bars their access to basic civil rights: social assistance, employment, health care, pensions and the ability to leave the country.
   Here is how an unnamed author describes the situation of Armenians onDay.az:
   Citizens of Azerbaijan of Armenian descent often prefer to hush up the problem rather than bring up the matter on institutional level. Thus, many of our respondents cannot obtain the payment of their rightfully claimed pensions. As a rule, all their complaints run up against answers approximately termed as follows:“And you still have the cheek to ask for a pension? You must be grateful that we allow you to live here at all”!131
   The ECRI report notes that as a result of the media policy and official ideology of Azerbaijan, being Armenian has become an insult, and claims of an Armenian descent can become a subject of litigation causing the person to lose his/her job. Azerbaijani news outlets teem with voices exhorting to fire not only Armenians, but also those who have Armenian lineage (i.e. have an Armenian mother, grandmother or spouse).
   The Azerbaijani website Pia.azpublished an article entitled“A Disgraceful Fact in the System of Education” revealing that Elsa Tagieva who was the headmaster of the school № 246 in Binagadi district of Baku was Armenian by her maternal side. The article says that the Minister of Education of Azerbaijan, Misir Mardanov “entrusts the education of the rising generation of Azerbaijan to the enemies of Turkic peoples”. The author of the article wonders: “How can you entrust the education and patriotic upbringing of our children who represent our future to a half-breed Armenian?”132
   Apart from copious adversities and perils of their life in Azerbaijan, ethnic Armenians become a daily target of abuse and vilification from the representatives of the authorities, intellectuals and other citizens in the press, official statements, social and political discourse as well as in the social media. In addition, the disparaging and insulting rhetoric against Armenians as ethnic group is profusely fomented by the authorities of Azerbaijan.
   Columnist Chinara Vugar: The continued presence of Armenian women in Baku undermines our family life.&lt;…&gt; How could we sink so low? When the Armenian mother or grandmother of some official, a simple head physician or school headmaster dies, we shamelessly take part in the funeral because we depend on them, to say nothing of those who weep and shed tears at the funerals of Armenians.&lt;…&gt; How could we demean ourselves so much; when we send matchmakers to ask a girl in marriage or to marry off a girl, we move heaven and earth to find out from the law enforcement authorities whether or not the bride’s or groom’s pedigree has any Armenian lines. We unwittingly besmirch our honor with the blood of these dogs.133
   Gyunel Mehdi:Today, as our country is going through wartime, over 30 thousand Armenians lead carefree lives here. It is not enough that they never bother to mask their origin and have their documents massively restored, many of them hold high offices. They all raise their children in a spirit of hatred towards the Azerbaijani and remind them daily that the Azerbaijani are their enemies. We scare our children with some wild beasts, while Armenians are something much worse.&lt;…&gt; As long as there are Armenians living in our country, we won’t be able to resolve the issue of Karabakh.
   A few days ago, here in the center of Azerbaijan and its capital city of Baku, the‘freshest’ citizens of Azerbaijan came into being. I refer to Zhanna Shahmuradyan and her daughter. Just look at how insolent they are! As if it were not enough that they freely live here in tens of thousands using cloaked identities, today, through the Migration Service and courts, they seek to obtain documents under their true Armenian names.134
   Here, the reaction of the Azerbaijani community in social networks and forums presents a greater interest than the process itself. At grass roots level, many Azerbaijanis are genuinely surprised that“these insolent Armenians” dare to lay down the law, as if it were not enough that they lived in Azerbaijan. This rush of aggressive rhetoric among the regular Internet users from Azerbaijan is quite elucidating. Some demanded to have the addresses of the Armenian women to lynch them, and some others suggested “using these Armenians for propaganda”. It is of interest to examine both factions as they reveal the true attitude towards Armenians that Azerbaijan is so carefully trying to sweep under the carpet.135
   It is no secret that Azerbaijan can be hardly described as a country where common European values thrive, with its increasing incidence of corruption, misrule in the military, spiraling crime rate and hard-pressed social situation. To make matters worse, the propaganda keeps shifting the responsibility for everything that happens in Azerbaijan on Armenians who live there.
   “Today, Armenians are represented in virtually all power structures, social and political organizations, and they enjoy daily elevation in office. Today, they are capable of plunging us back into the events of 1993 putting our very statehood at risk. Today, numerous religious groups, movements and sects have been created and presently thrive in the city; it is Armenians who are behind and at the head of them. Day after day, they raise difficulties and throw obstacles in the way of the Azerbaijani citizens by poisoning their existence”.136
   “The former Minister of Economic Development of Azerbaijan Heydar Babayev had a driver named Gharib, but the Minister himself called him by a fishy name of Garik.&lt;…&gt; Our investigation conducted as part of the Witch-hunt operation revealed an outrageous fact; this very Garik had Armenian lineage.&lt;…&gt; Just imagine that the Minister of Economic Development entrusted the Armenian to steer his vehicle who had been his driver for many years. A person who dealt with problems related to the development of our country let an Armenian into these important processes. And we are all too well aware of their unfortunate outcome. Today, our country’s economic development continues to be in the hands of aliens who have infiltrated the Ministry.&lt;…&gt; The former minister, instead of getting rid of his driver, had a new passport concocted for him changing the driver’s name to Gharib”.137
   “A group of cadets from the Military Academy of Azerbaijan addressed a letter to the Azadliq newspaper in which they described the unbearable conditions of their training.&lt;…&gt; The Head of the Academy, Najaf Gambarov was a friend of the Defense Minister Safar Abiyev from his student years and was notorious for his murky dealings during the years of his work in the military enlistment office. In 1993, N. Gambarov surrendered the military unit in his command to the insurgent colonel Suret Huseynov and fled. He is also accused of having an Armenian wife”.138
   For the sake of fairness, it must be noted there are opinions which accurately reflect the bewilderment of ordinary citizens about the discrepancy between the declared values and calls on the one hand and the true state of affairs on the other.
   In fact, no matter how regretful it may sound to be, we must not exhort the Armenians of Karabakh to accept our conditions on the widest autonomy, on the one hand, and inter alia refuse to issue documents to Armenian citizens of Azerbaijan, on the other. We must do the contrary so as to guarantee in practice the viability and security of the Armenian community of Karabakh, should they agree to autonomy within Azerbaijan.139
   With this onslaught of armenophobic policy that Azerbaijan has long sought to conceal, the surviving Armenians who had not been able to leave the country in time for various reasons found themselves virtually marginalized and excluded as low-grade citizens who stand as a constant reminder of a dented dignity and are continuously made to answer for sins they never committed.
   “I don’t know a single fact when the rights of the Armenians living in Azerbaijan were infringed”, said Heydar Aliyev on July 1, 1999 during the meeting with Georgian and Armenian journalists taking part in the conference held at the Presidential Palace in Baku as part of the Media Support Project by the Geneva Institute for Democracy.140
   4. Ban on Armenian names
   The custom of banning names is quite common in the world. Such bans have their rationale based on the interests of children, protection of the current ideology and set of values.
   Thus, many countries have a strict state-regulated procedure for assigning names to the children by their parents who often chase the tendencies in vogue and choose quite exotic names, such as: Kanalizatsia, Tractor, Lucifer, Number 16 Bus Shelter, Biological Object Human descendant of the Voronins and Frolovs born on June 26, 2002,digitalnames, etc. For instance, China has long maintained a ban on naming children after representatives of the imperial family, particularly those of the dynasty in power; such names had to be changed. Some countries taboo names related to religious views; for instance, certain countries place a ban on such names as Lucifer and alike.
   The restrictions and bans in Azerbaijan have to deal with the ethnic origin of the name.
   In 2011, the Academy of Sciences and the Government of Azerbaijan approved aprinciple of the traffic light, according to which the state authorities themselves determine the list oftrustworthyandprohibitednames for children that Azerbaijan parents can choose from.
   The Director of the Institute of Information Technologies of ANAS, Rasim Aliguliyev, has noted that based on the principle of thetraffic light, the names which“correspond to the national, cultural and ideological values of Azerbaijan” will be included in thegreen listand can be assigned without any restrictions.
   The second category will be comprised of names included in theyellow list. These names are neither desirable nor recommended; they cause derision and sound inappropriate in other languages.
   Names of the third category will be included in thered list; assigning of these names will not be allowed.“Such names include the names of persons who have perpetrated aggression against the people of Azerbaijan, names whose meaning is offensive in the Azerbaijani language”.141
   Armenian names were included in thered listof prohibited names. According to Rasim Aliguliyev,“it is unacceptable in Azerbaijan to name your baby Andranik”.142 That comes to say that if a Lezgin wants to name his son Arsen– a name very popular both among Armenians and Lezgins, or if a Talysh wants to name his son Armin – a name quite popular among both Armenian and Talysh people, he will have to apply to the commission for a special authorization.
   Russian names, too, came under attack. According to Sayali Sagidova, the chairman of the Commission,“not every Azerbaijani family would marry their daughter off to somebody named Dmitry”.143 A ban will be also placed on such names as Maria, Ekaterina, Alya and other Russian names.
   Also, a special commission of the National Academy of Sciences approved a bill imposing changes in the last names used in Azerbaijan where endings with– ov and – ev would be substituted by their Turkicized variants of – lu, – li, -beyli, etc.
   Nizami Jafarov, Chairman of the Azerbaijani Parliamentary Committee on Cultural Issues, when asked how this new law would affect the national minorities of Azerbaijan, such as Lezgins, Talysh, Avars, Tats and representatives of other ethnic groups gave this answer:“The question on the agenda is as follows; every person who considers himself/herself Azerbaijani – and most of the ethnic minorities of Azerbaijan have merged with the Azerbaijani people and consider themselves Azerbaijani – will have to change his/her last n a me”.144
   This lays a very interesting groundwork not only for fast-tracking the assimilation processes of the indigenous population of Azerbaijan, but is in direct contravention of the country’s declared set of values, such as tolerance and cultural diversity, the commitment to which the myth of 30,000 Armenians living on the territory of Azerbaijan purports to illustrate.
   It appears that the ethnic Armenians who live today on the territory of Azerbaijan are automatically divested of any chance to keep and develop their cultural traditions by naming their children Andranik145, Armen, Hrayr or alike.
   Azerbaijan’s appetite for integration of the Armenian-populated territory of Nagorno-Karabakh inevitably leads to a series of conclusions, such as:
   (a) Armenians of Karabakh andcitizensof Azerbaijan will be prohibited from using their own ethnic names entered into theredlist. This will violate their rights, or they will be outlawed;
   (b) Azerbaijan is working out an option of returning Karabakh without Armenians populating its territory which means that they will have to face a forceful assimilation or banishment, which is in contradiction of the promised concept of the widest autonomy possible;
   (c) The Azerbaijani power elite have ceased to view Karabakh as an integral part of their country on a subconscious level; therefore, in adopting certain laws, they completely disregard the interests of the population which itself has long lost the feeling of affiliation with Azerbaijan.

   It is noteworthy that the Azerbaijanis themselves, despite their claims of individual ethnic identity, lack traditional Azerbaijani ethnic names. These names can be exclusively traced back to: Arabic roots, adapted through Islam (Seid, Seyran, Ali, Vugar, Rasim, Zia, Ilham), Iranian roots (Panah, Nariman, Bahram, Rovshan, Siyavush, Azar) and Armenian roots (Mayis). The Iranian-speaking Talysh people bear ethnic names from pre-Islamic period, such as: Zardusht146, Kadus147, Zabil, Kekul, Shali, Chessaret, Ferin, Revane, and Sherebanu. The practice of using names common for all Turkic people from Altai to Turkey, such as Ogtay, Elnur, Atakhan, Elshan, Altay has been introduced but a few decades ago which is at odds with the concept of genuine ethnic names.
   5. Entry ban to Azerbaijan
   An extraordinary manifestation of armenophobia and incitement to hatred take form of banning the entry for ethnic Armenians who are not Armenian residents or nationals.
   The practice of banning entry is quite common worldwide. Thus, certain conflicting, warring or ideologically opposed countries impose similar bans (Israel and Muslim countries), significantly complicate the entry visa issuing procedure (India and Pakistan) and sometimes go as far as imposing fines or arresting the person concerned (Georgia and Abkhazia or Southern Ossetia).
   Azerbaijan, in its turn, has mimicked the practices of other countries amalgamating their methods into an arrangement that above all is in contradiction with its commitment to the principles of tolerance avowed domestically and internationally. The emotional character of this decision along with its chaotic application and insufficient elaboration made the enforcement of this mechanism quite perplexing. This latter circumstance frequently leads to scandals and some singular incidents.
   First, the self-ascribed commitment to the principle of tolerance prevents Azerbaijan from placing a legislative ban officially proscribing the entry of ethnic Armenians into the country. Second, the absence of an unambiguous regulatory document such as a law or a sublegislative act lends absurdity to the actions of the Azerbaijani officials. Third, the citizens of Azerbaijan themselves and the officers of international agencies have hard time pinpointing where the denied entry, removal, detainment or deportation of a specific person is legitimate and where it is not so.
   Two football players from the Russian club Torpedo of Armavir were deported from Azerbaijan immediately upon their arrival at the airport of the city Ganja in July 2011 on the account of their Armenian origin. Mehman Allahverdiev, the head coach of the Azerbaijani football club Kapaz, had invited Armenian football players for an audition, however, it was reported that he had had no prior knowledge of the Armenian origin of the Russian players. Their arrival drew a great uproar at the airport of Ganja. The officers of the State Border Service returned the Armenian football players who held Russian passports on the same plane in which they had arrived.148
   In 2010, the Armenian delegation was unable to board a plane from Moscow to Baku to attend the 64th General Assembly of the European Broadcasting Union due to the wrongful acts of the Azerbaijan’s representative office of Aeroflot Air Company.149
   The representatives of the Armenian delegation were about to board the plane when the representative of the Azerbaijani side asked the passengers if there were any Armenians among them. Hearing an affirmative answer, she asked Armenians to hand over their boarding passes and step aside. After all passengers including numerous participants of the EBU General Assembly boarded the plane, the boarding passes of the Armenian representatives were shredded, and they were told that passenger seats in the plane were complete which by definition could not make any sense as the tickets of the Armenian delegation members were in the business class. Moreover, the boarding pass indicates a seat assigned to a specific passenger; therefore, it is virtually impossible to register two passengers for the same seat.
   In November 2011, the officers of the passport control service at the airport of Baku denied entry to the interim head of the Public Relations Department of the company Beeline Kazakhstan, Mr. Bayram Azizov on the ground that he had previously been to Yerevan on a working visit;150 incidentally, he was a citizen of Kazakhstan and an ethnic Azerbaijani. The aggrieved person had to spend 48 hours in the transit zone of the Baku airport before his deportation to the country of origin. It is worth mentioning that Mr. Bayram Azizov tried to seek assistance from the head of the Azerbaijani state by posting a message on the Twitter account of the president Ilham Aliyev:“Good day! Please, help me! I’m a citizen of Kazakhstan. It’s almost 48 hours since I have been in the transit zone of the airport of Baku. Border guards have seized my passport, and I don’t understand the reason of my detention. I have to sleep on the floor and feed myself on instant noodle! I’m running out of money! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been made aware of the situation”. Unfathomably, both postings somehow disappeared from Aliyev’s Twitter account.
   In reply to a remark from a journalist of Vesti.az news agency to the effect that a person who had visited Armenia would face difficulties in entering Azerbaijan, the aggrieved person said that he had traveled into Georgia approximately a year prior to that and could easily cross Georgian-Armenian border despite his Azerbaijani ethnicity indicated in his passport.151

   Reasons for denying entry:
   1. Visit to Nagorno-Karabakh Republic through the territory of Armenia;152
   2. Visit to Armenia;
   3. Armenian origin, existence of Armenian relatives or friends, expressing feelings of sympathy towards Armenia or Armenian people;
   4. Incapacity to secure the safety of Armenians visiting Azerbaijan;
   5. Suspicions of a terrorist threat;
   6. Existence of a law to that effect;
   7. Names that arouse suspicions because they sound Armenian, or an alleged relation to Armenians;
   8. Persons whose relatives or acquaintances have committed insulting or outrageous acts from the Azerbaijani perspective (a concert by a popular singer Philip Kirkorov was canceled in Baku because at the time his father was helping an Armenian disabled boy153).
   Sufian Zhemukhov:The secret of my name was revealed during my visit to an international workshop in Baku, to where I flew from Istanbul. At customs, a good-looking Azerbaijani lady checked my passport.&lt;…&gt; In fact, that lady called an officer of Azerbaijani special services and handed him my passport. The officer joined his colleague at the other end of the hall where they long conferred together and even made some telephone calls. After that, they beckoned me and asked:“This name of yours, what is it?”&lt;…&gt; Then they asked me bluntly:“So, this means it’s not an Armenian name?” Then, it all dawned on me. These cloaked Turkish officers and their simple-minded Azerbaijani colleagues took me for a crafty Armenian trying to sneak into their country!&lt;…&gt;“No, no, Sufian is not an Armenian name”, reassured them I. And I breathed a mixed sigh of relief and anguish. It seemed that the problem was not my name but their anti-Armenian complexes.&lt;…&gt; Later, An American told me that he, too, had had problems at the Azerbaijani customs because his passport had an Armenian visa. Although as it is, it appears that they should never stop bowing, if they take an American passport into their hands. This put my mind in rest about my red-skin passport. Of course, I have heard that Armenians and Azerbaijanis dislike each other, but I never knew that it was that serious.154
   Zurab Dvali: The first hassles started when we measured the height of the wall once and then began to build the same scene for the shooting.”But you have already measured the wall, why are you doing it all over again?” asked a cheerless party official sporting a golden signature of H. Aliyev pinned on his lapel.&lt;…&gt;“Oh, no,” groaned the vigilant party leader Abbasov. “You are deceiving us; you have come here to shoot something else!” And precisely at that moment he noticed a book in Georgian that a member of our expedition, geographer Kakhi Jelia was holding in his hands. “What is this?” he asked.“A book on ancient Georgian architecture”.&lt;…&gt; The book published back in 1979 and authored by a famous scientist Ilia Adamia was a bombshell for Abbasov. All of a sudden, he started calling someone and went off into a loud discussion accompanied by an intensive body language. Then, seeing our bewilderment, he finally uttered:“The Armenian finger!” We all exchanged bewildered glances without understanding the meaning of it. Only later did we find out that the party bigwig somehow thought that the last name ‘Adamia’ was an Armenian one. Another ten plain-clothes officers rushed to his ear-piercing scream. We weresurrounded, but refused to hand over the book. But our work had to be done, and amid this disapproving buzz of the local populace, we started the shooting. Our every step, our every move around the village was supervised from three cars that accompanied us.
   &lt;…&gt; We had no other choice but to give everything up and head for the border. As we were leaving Balakan, we were intercepted by a state security car cutting in front of us and were escorted to the Office of Islam Rzayev, the Chairman of the Executive Committee of Balakan region. The indefatigable party leader kept pointing his finger at our book and finally asked:“Who is Adamia?” “A Georgian scientist”, we replied. He looked at Abbasov. “Georgian? Not Armenian?” asked Rzayev again with a dubious voice. “ADAMIA is a Mingrelian last name”, we all admitted in unison.155
   The first point is more or less clear; yet, in the remaining cases, a question stands: is it aboutthe law or security?
   Thus, Diana Markosyan, a photo correspondent of Bloomberg agency, a national of the United States and Russian Federation, was deported from Baku to Istanbul on the ground of her Armenian origin in June 2011.156 The press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan confirmed the deportation of the Bloomberg photo correspondent because of her Armenian descent:
   “Markosyan’s stay in Azerbaijan will raise issues related to securing her safety because of her Armenian origin”.It is hard to guess why an accredited journalist, a national of the United States and the Russian Federation may face the need to ensure her protection and security on the territory of a civilized and tolerant state. However, Ali Hasanov, the Head of the Department of Public and Political Issues of the Administration of the President of Azerbaijan, refers to violating a law, which does not exist:“This media company had sufficient other options and they could have sent another photo correspondent. Yet, insisting on the arrival of this specific correspondent is an affront to the laws of the country and is insulting to us. We cannot put up with this”.157
   After the scandal with the Russian citizen Sergey Gyurjian158 the Azerbaijani newspaperYeni Musavatmade an attempt to figure out whether the entry ban for Armenian citizens and nationals of other countries with Armenian lineage was official, or the arrangement was enforced informally.159
   In October 2011, the representatives of Azerbaijani airlines (AZAL) at Domodedovo Airport prevented the representative of AVTOVAZ OJSC, Sergey Gyurjian, a Russian national, and his colleague Demitri Schuhmacher, an Israeli national and director of LADA International Limited company, from boarding the plane from Moscow to Baku where they went as a part of the delegation to strike a deal for shipment of LADA cars to Azerbaijan.160 An officer of the airline company who handled the registration of boarding documents asked a question about his ethnicity:“What is your ethnicity? Armenian?” To that, Gyurjian replied that he was a citizen of the Russian Federation, and his ethnicity had no bearing on the flight registration. However, Elgar Aliyev, the representative of AZAL Company, refused to proceed with the registration referring to an instruction from his management: “Not to register passengers with Armenian names”.161
   The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Azerbaijan skirted around a blunt question from the newspapers, and the head of the AZAL press service, Mehriban Safarli stated that their company“only dealt with passenger transportation and not their citizenship”. In her turn, Svetlana Rodionova, the representative of the Domodedovo Airport, stated that“the management of the airport prohibits the registration of Russian citizens of Armenian origin for flights to Baku”.
   Unlike the management of AZAL, the head of the press service of theAzerbaijani Railways, Nadir Azmamedov stated that“the entry of Armenian citizens and ethnic Armenians who are nationals of other countries is officially prohibited”.
   In relation to the notorious incident with Sergey Gyurjian, a representative of the airline company, Magerram Safarli stated:“It is known that 20 percent of Azerbaijan’s territories162 are occupied by Armenia. Therefore, a trip to Azerbaijan is considered undesirable for ethnic Armenians. For this reason, they can visit the country only as part of international events”, added Safarli.
   Nevertheless, international events, too, are far from hassle-free. Thus, the Director of the Regional Studies Center Richard Giragosian was denied an Azerbaijani entry visa in March 2012 for participation in an international conference in Baku on the ground that the nomination of an Armenian expert was“unacceptable”.163 The same lot was reserved for a citizen of Turkey164 who had come to Baku as part of a Turkish delegation and a citizen of Latvia165 who had arrived to Baku as part of the delegation of the Latvian President.
   &lt;…&gt; a few days ago, a Turkish singer Sertab Erener arrived in Baku. A musician named Burak Bedikyan, who came with the delegation of the Turkish singer and was a Turkish national of Armenian origin, was denied entry to Azerbaijan and had to return to where he came from. Upon his return to Turkey, Bedikyan made up his mind to give the local press a detailed tearjerker account of his stay at the airport of Baku. He insists that his denied entry to Azerbaijan related to his Armenian roots. Incidentally, this is not the first case when citizens of different countries who are ethnic Armenians are unable to gain entry into our country. On every such occasion, however, it is emphasized in Baku that they see no reason to give any clarification whatsoever as“authorizing or denying entry” is the right of every sovereign state.
   &lt;…&gt; Another such incident happened during the visit of the Latvian President to Azerbaijan. Similarly, this time the Latvian delegation included an Armenian citizen of Latvia.“Despite the fact that he had arrived with the Latvian President, he was not allowed entry to our country and had to turn back.
   In his commentary on the incident related to Mr. Bedikyan, who was a citizen of the“fraternal Turkey”, a department head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, T. Tagizadeh clarified: “He can even be a citizen of Vatican! Only we can decide who gets the visa and who doesn’t”.166
   The absence of a regulated line of conduct can lead to the fact that entry into the country may be barred at three different levels:
   • By the attending staff level of airports, airlines, railways or hotels. They may claim to do so at the behest of their superiors.
   • By the staff of consular services, embassies and visa departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan;
   • By the staff of the border guard service.

   Forms of denying entry:
   • Straightforward communication;
   • Procrastination in issuing an entry visa;
   • Issuing an entry visa and canceling it upon arrival in Azerbaijan;
   • Entering the person’s name intoblacklistsbefore arrival or after departure.
   A few years ago, the practice of blacklisting was introduced in Azerbaijan. This practice is quite common worldwide and concerns, as a rule, terrorists, internationally wanted criminals, drug lords, persons who have repeatedly violated visa procedures and recently has come to include corrupted public officials (Magnitsky List). This practice involves procedures, parameters, techniques and legislative instruments that have long been elaborated and are perfectly intelligible. Azerbaijan, however, has such a list, but it lacks a principle for entering and removing names.
   In the beginning, suchblacklisttargeted persons who had ever visited Nagorno-Karabakh. Further, suchlistswere extended to include persons of Armenian lineage (Svetlana Loboda,167 Avraam Russo).
   The impulsive and chaotic practice ofblacklistingsignals a lack of consistency, where people in identical situations may be penalized selectively.
   On certain occasions, the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan issues threats to“investigate” and “keep in focus” numerous visits of international delegations to Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Frequently, the results of these investigations by the Azerbaijani foreign office never surface, thereby making the selection criteria for blacklisting a specific political figure orjournalist completely unfathomable.
   For instance, Joseph Simitian, the American Senator of Armenian origin, visited Baku as part of the Parliamentary Commission of the U.S. Senate. His Armenian descent was no secret in Baku, still, no issues occurred in relation to“securing his safety” or “flouting the law” as was the case with the representative of a leading Russian automaker Sergey Gyurjian or the reporter of theBloombergnetwork Diana Markosyan. Moreover, as reported byMusavatnewspaper,168 the spiritual leader of Azerbaijan, Sheikh ul-Islam Allahshükür Pashazadeh, addressed to the Armenian Simitian a request to assist him with obtaining an entry visa for another trip to the United States.
   After the Senator’s departure from Baku and his visit to Nagorno-Karabakh, he was immediatelyblacklisted, while other people who had been to Karabakh on numerous visits were spared this sanction.
   In 2011, in the wake of a scandal over the visit to Karabakh by a journalist Sergey Buntman and his subsequentblacklisting, a fellow journalist fromEkho Moskvy (Echo of Moscow)radio station was invited to Baku; it was the first deputy of the editor-in-chief Vladimir Varfolomeyev169 who had also been to Nagorno-Karabakh Republic back in 2003. Two years later, in 2013, after his visits to Stepanakert and Baku, Varfolomeyev too saw his name in thelist.170
   The astronauts Charles Duke (USA) and Claude Nicollier (Switzerland), who set foot on Moon and in Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, were also included in theblacklistof the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan.171 In case of the Washington Post reporter Will Englund,172 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan announced that it was well aware of his visit to Nagorno-Karabakh Republic and had no objection. Nevertheless, despite the assurances of E. Abdullayev173 that“foreign nationals who seek official authorization from the Azerbaijani side to visit occupied territories of the country will not be included in the list”, the awareness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan failed tosaveEnglund’s name from appearing in theblacklist. Will Englund, in his turn, stated that in his coverage of Nagorno-Karabakh, he gave an impartial commentary on the issue and a truthful account of what he personally saw, and the capital city of Nagorno-Karabakh Republic for decades has borne the name of Stepanakert and not Khankendi, as claimed by the Azerbaijanis174.
   In May 2013, a Georgian journalist Margarita Akhvlediani was detained at the airport of Baku and not allowed to enter the country, while the citizens of Great Britain who were accompanying her were allowed to gain free entry into Azerbaijan.
   “Indeed, yesterday I arrived in Baku by plane at the invitation of Avaz Hasanov, Head of Society for Humanitarian Research, to hold trainings among refugees and internally displaced persons. However, I could not make it through the passport control as I was simply not allowed to pass. I had to spend almost 24 hours at the airport of Baku, without hearing any explanation. Only later did I find out that I was denied entry to Azerbaijan because of my visit to Nagorno-Karabakh. Yet, my passport contains no stamps or seals attesting my visit to Karabakh. I’m a journalist and may visit any country in my professional capacity. Interestingly, British nationals who accompanied me and had also paid a visit to Karabakh faced absolutely no claims. I studied the legislation of Azerbaijan, and unlike Georgian legislation, it does not provide for any penalty or sanction for visiting Nagorno-Karabakh. This incident is currently handled by the Embassy of Azerbaijan to Georgia, and I am also waiting for explanations from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan”, concluded M. Akhvlediani in her interview.175
   The journalists from Euronews TV channel who visited Nagorno-Karabakh Republic and produced some footage covering the real daily life of the local population could also avoidblacklisting. To be fair, they were required to make amends and shoot a similar film from the Azerbaijani perspective. Peter Barabas who is the chief editor of the TV channel agreed to prepare an equivalent report from Azerbaijan but“on the same terms which we solicited from the Armenian Government, i.e. the report will be based exclusively on our editorial policy and guiding principles”, stated P. Barabas.176
   It is possible to beblacklistedfor a single use of the word Karabakh. A popular Daghestani singer Timur Temirov wasblacklistedby the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan after he recorded a song namedOur dear Caucasus,in which he confessed his love for Armenia and sang of its sights, including Artsakh. In his interview toVesti.az, Timur Temirov stated that after the airing of the music video, he was denied entry to Azerbaijan:“Last year, they turned me back, and I don’t want that it happening again”.177
   There have been recorded cases ofremovinga name from theblacklist. Theremovalprocedure is also quite obscure and opaque; yet, past experience indicates that it takes showing some remorse and asking for forgiveness, although in certain cases, it is enough to admit verbally that the person in question visited Karabakh unknowingly or was tricked into going there (“they didn’t say where they were taking us”). However, it does not always work with everyone. Or you can hail Azerbaijan preferably by showing your dislike of Armenia; however, this requirement may be dispensed with.
   After the Russian singer Katya Lel gave a concert in Karabakh and was subsequentlyblacklisted, she gave an interview to the Azerbaijani information agencyAzerTAcwhere she expressed a wish tohave her name off the blacklistof the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan; she was allowed to give a free concert in Baku.178 A famed French actor Gerard Depardieu and Head of the Georgian Writers Union Makvala Gonashvili179 had their names removed from theblacklistafter they publiclyrepented.
   Journalists fromZerkalonewspaper set a goal of finding out what are Azerbaijan’s requirements for removing a name from theblacklist.180 To believe the press secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs E. Polukhov, there are absolutely no requirements. He clarified that placing a person’s name on thelist of undesirableswas not the Ministry’s responsibility: “Once we receive information that a specific person has visited Nagorno-Karabakh, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs forwards this information to the appropriate public bodies which are authorized to ban entry to the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The border guard service which is responsible for defending the country’s frontier has such a list”.
   This being said, it is still unclear who makes the decision onremovinga specific name from the list. E. Polukhov suggested that journalists might seek clarification on issues of their interest at law enforcement authorities, i.e. Azerbaijan’s Ministry of National Security and the State Border Service.
   Following Polukhov’s advice, the journalists turned to the Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan for an elucidation. However, the Ministry’s Head of Public Relations, Arif Babayev stated that this matter was beyond the scope of their Ministry. Next, the journalists asked the Ministry of Interior Affairs ofAzerbaijan to comment on the issue. According to the Ministry’s press service represented by Orhan Mansurzadeh, their Ministry did not handle the placement or removal of names on thelist of undesirables. The State Border Service of Azerbaijan communicated through the officer of its press service, Jabrail Aliyev that the name of a person was removed from thelist of undesirablesby the same organization which had placed the name on the list.
   It must be noted that despite Azerbaijan’s threats ofblacklistingthose who visit Karabakh, the number of official and artistic visitors grows year by year which cannot go unnoticed by the Azerbaijani side.
   They can see that draconian measures not only fail to discourage visits to Karabakh but also increase in inverse proportion the number of names on thelistwhich means that these people will refrain from visiting Azerbaijan.
   Abulfaz Garayev, Azerbaijan’s Minister of Culture and Tourism, claims to see through this devious scheme: ‘’Armenians are implementing a willful policy trying to rob Azerbaijan of famed artistic figures and take various singers to Karabakh by deception”.181
   Reporters without borders,which is an international organization defending the freedom of the press has voiced its concern over the situation where the Azerbaijani authorities restrict the work of journalists who cover the Karabakh conflict.“In doing their work, journalists must enjoy freedom and unimpeded movement without having to obtain the permission of any party. Blacklisting journalists is inadmissible and inefficient,” says the press release of the organization.182
   Using visits to Armenia as a pretext to deny entry to persons who constitute a threat for the country’s political regime is yet another peculiarity of theblacklist. It was the case in the situation with a journalist Milrad Fatullayev who was an ethnic Lezgin.183
   A working visit turned sour for Milrad Fatullayev with his less-than-pleasant stay at the airport of Baku where he had to spend a whole day locked up by the border guards. No intelligible explanation was given as to the reasons of Fatullayev’s detention.&lt;…&gt;“Absence of any justification is the most interesting justification. Because I came here, to the Baku airport, at 3 o’clock in the morning, my passport was taken from me for control and I never got it back. In addition, I was given no explanation; here I am sitting and waiting.&lt;…&gt; I remember a similar case when I was checked in the same way in Baku after I had been to Armenia, but that was a year and half or two years ago.&lt;…&gt; At that time, I could go through the controls and returned to Moscow after visiting Azerbaijan. So, I thought that now it was about the same thing. I kept waiting, but by 5 o’clock I made up my mind to figure out what the matter was.&lt;…&gt; I introduced myself as a journalist of Nezavissimaya Gazeta newspaper to an officer who tried to expose me as a person who was breaking the law. Well, I stood there trying to explain to him that I came there to a specific person for a specific reason.&lt;…&gt; As I could learn, I was denied entry to Azerbaijan because of taking part in a conference held in Yerevan and initiated by Mr. Levon Melik-Shahnazaryan. Another Dagestani journalist, Marko Shahbanov, the leader of Avar National and Cultural Autonomy, had earlier faced problems attempting to gain entry to Azerbaijan.&lt;…&gt; While crossing the border, he also underwent a verification procedure, but was allowed to go through in the end. Last year, I also had my documents checked, but they finally let me go through. Now again, there are Azerbaijanis coming up to me and asking:“What is it? Have you been to Karabakh?” No, I haven’t been there”.
   Alexander Lapshin (Puerrttо), a traveler well-known in the blogosphere for visiting various countries and crossing countless borders, describes how to bluff your way past customs officers at the Georgian-Azerbaijani border:
   “Things were quick and easy on the Georgian side. Next, I walked over a border bridge and set foot in Azerbaijan. There, everything was very different from Georgia. The setting epitomized an unmistakable Soviet spirit. Georgian policemen wearing smiles and nice uniforms were replaced by gloomy tommy gunners wearing soviet military fur hats with earflaps, while numerous signs reading ‘’Bribery is punishable by 7 years of imprisonment” were replaced by ubiquitous portraits of the Aliyevs: both father and son. A very cold and standoffish man in plain clothes demanded: “Passport”. I handed my passport over to him. He examined it for a long time scrutinizing every page. For some reason, he tried to scratch my Georgian visa with his fingernail&lt;…&gt;. Next, he said something to me in the Azerbaijani language. I replied that, regretfully, I didn’t speak Azerbaijani and asked in my turn: “Do you speak English?” in case the man did not speak Russian. He smirked at me and said in an immaculate Russian: “In fact, I asked you in Armenian”. Wow, can it be possible that an Armenian works in the Azerbaijani State Security Service? That was incredible. So I asked him: “I beg your pardon, are you Armenian?” His eyes popped out in shock. “What?? What makes you think that I am Armenian? I am Azerbaijani. Then, I asked him why on earth had he spoken to me in Armenian? He cut me short: “That’s it, enough talking, if I ask, I do it for a reason”.
   Another minute went by as he examined my passport for the fifth time. Then, all of a sudden, he shot a question at me:“Have you been to Armenia?” I answered in the affirmative sensing that I was up for a tough conversation. Then the officer went off with his next question: “And you must have been to Karabakh too, right?” I replied that these were only his assumptions and unfounded at that. He looked up: “So you must be a lawyer then?” I let the remark go unanswered. He tapped me on the shoulder and said: “Welcome to Azerbaijan!” So, I got another stamp in my passport.184
   On August 2, 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan published a list consisting of 335 names placed on theblacklist.185 Despite the assurances of the official representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan, Elman Abdullayev to the effect that“illegal visits to the occupied territories of the Republic”186 were the underlying reasons for that, over 50 persons were blacklisted without any reason specified.
   6. Ban on positive attitude to Armenians
   Another essential component of the blocking policy against Armenia and inculcation of armenophobia implying a complete dehumanization of Armenians is the ban on any references that may potentially showcase the human qualities of Armenians and portray them as possessing creative and benevolent traits. All potential avenues towards personal contacts apt to cause the shattering of propaganda clichés, which translate into a huge cost in terms of money, resources and time, are shut off.
   The representatives of the country’s intellectual, political and cultural elite are recruited to partake in this process, administrative leverage is exercised, while allrecalcitrantpersons take heavy punishment becoming obstructed and divested of any opportunity to pursue their professional activities.
   Or, inversely, upon accomplishment of the public repudiation of Armenians as a concept, feelings of sympathy towards Armenians can be used as a sufficient ground to ostracize an out-of-favor opponent often in political and not infrequently in professional, social and daily life.
   Siyavush Novruzov, Member of Parliament, deputy executive secretary of the ruling party Yeni Azerbaijan:Rustam Ibragimbekov, who held the meeting of the National Council in a hotel that belongs to an Armenian, proved once again his alliance with Armenians&lt;…&gt; Rustam Ibragimbekov has good relations with Armenians. He openly stated that he held Armenians in great respect and esteem. In one of his interviews, he even said that after the Armenians left Baku, our capital city sank low in cultural sense. How can a person with such thinking lead Azerbaijan?187
   Techniques to impact the public perception of Armenians can be distinguished according to their object, extent and form.

   Target I. Marginalizing interaction with Armenians
   In this case, the same techniques are employed as described above. Marginalizing all interactions with Armenians over social networks188 can be classified as another manifestation of this ban, with persons considered to be the most reputable for a specific social group, including politicians, scientists and artistic figures of different levels recruited to put in their weight to impact their respective target groups. Verbal abuse in respect of Armenians is held in an especially high social esteem and is considered to be a display of patriotic feelings.
   Aydin Mirzazadeh, Member of Parliament: When some residents of Baku lapse into sentimentality and search for their former classmates and neighbors among Armenians or even add them to their friend list, they must pause and think how friendly the feelings of the opposite side are.

   Nizami Jafarov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Cultural Issues:With the issue of Nagorno-Karabakh still pending, cooperation with Armenians at any level is an act of treason. You can negotiate, discuss political matters, resolve cultural problems, but befriending Armenians, with Armenia occupying our lands, is inadmissible. This is a feigned friendship!

   Zahid Oruj, Member of the Standing Parliamentary Commission on Security and Defense: Such friendly ties are absolutely unacceptable, because they create an impression that we are free from problems with Armenia, that we are not in a state of war with them, and they did not occupy our lands. In general, all friendly visits to Armenia and Nagorno-Garabakh as part of popular diplomacy are unacceptable, as they lead to the freezing of the conflict and contribute to resolving legal matters in favor of Armenia. The history has shown the price that Azerbaijan had to pay for its friendship with Armenia: how much of our land went to Armenians in the Soviet times, how much more has been occupied… Friendship with Armenians can virtually result in another strategic grab of the Azerbaijani territories in the future. Therefore, the Ministry of National Security must take a partial control of all messaging that goes through this website.

   Vafa Guluzadeh, political analyst, an advisor to the former government:There can never be any friendship between us and Armenians firstly, because a sea of blood has been shed and secondly, there is Russia that pits Armenia against Azerbaijan using them to fulfill its own agenda.

   Sayga Jahid, anchorperson and producer:Of course, there are many active Armenian users on this website trying to contact Azerbaijanis. It has also happened to me, but I immediately removed them because they are our enemies. We must refrain from entering into any correspondence with them. I have a negative attitude about those who do so, and especially singers. They must be ashamed!

   Farid Rzayev, anchorperson of the V.I.P Club TV show:I am a user of this website and I found there many of my friends and relatives. However, any communication with Armenians is out of the question. Why do we have to communicate with them? And if an Armenian tries to contact me, I blacklist him.

   Orhan Rzayev, anchorperson of the V.I.P Club TV show:I would like to add up to the words of my brother Farid that the website odnoklassniki.ru has many Armenian users. They may pretend to be angels, but we must not be deceived by that. We have only one enemy, and it is Armenians. We must not forget that as early as in their infancy, it is whispered into their little ears:“In the future, you will become a citizen of the Great Armenia, and you have only one enemy, and it is the Turks.

   Ilkin Hasani, anchorperson at the TV show ATV Magazine:May I be damned if I ever communicate with Armenians. I have sent them a couple of messages but only to fight them virtually.

   Faytoncu Nazim, singer:Corresponding with Armenians is no good. They’re our enemies. Befriending Armenians who have grabbed over 20 percent of Azerbaijani lands is a complete absurdity. I am also against it.

   Agil Abbas, Member of Parliament, writer and journalist: I have two sons who occasionally visit Armenian sites. They can give quite a harsh reply to Armenians and so make their own contribution to the information war. I personally consider it weird that young people correspond with Armenians. If it is done out of friendship, then they are fools, and I will repeat– fools. We may resume our contacts with Armenians only after they kneel down before us and ask forgiveness for Garabakh. The people, who visit this website for a friendly exchange of messages with Armenians, are not Azerbaijanis.

   The Azerbaijani website Unсоqtа. azwebsite published an article entitled‘What is the link between the correspondent of Zerkalo newspaper and Armenians?’ in which the journalist Yelena Malakhova is accused by her Azerbaijani colleagues of communication with her Armenian acquaintances over the web. The article says that despite the Karabakh conflict, Armenians live in Azerbaijan, “but it does not mean that they are not our enemies”. “Armenians who live among us have been naturalized, but we must know our enemies by sight”, says the article and points that every citizen of Azerbaijan must know it and refrain from close interaction with Armenians.”The correspondent of Zerkalo newspaper Yelena Malakhova seems to have forgotten this simple truth. This lady has recently been to Belgium as part of the EU European Neighborhood Policy Program. In Brussels, Malakhova walked with the delegation of Armenian journalists and took pictures with them. The pictures clearly show warm relations of Yelena Malakhova with Armenians. Now she communicates with them over Facebook and posted there a picture with Alla Serobyan”, airs its indignation the Azerbaijani news outlet.189

   Faig Agayev, People’s Artist of Azerbaijancriticized on his Facebook page those of his compatriots who Liked the Armenian magazine Yerevan.“I don’t quite understand… what kind of Azerbaijani could have Liked this? Do you realize what you Like? You must be ashamed”, wrote Agayev and stated that he had a right to express his opinion as a citizen of Azerbaijan and a People’s Artist.190

   Vagif Semedoghlu, People’s Poet of Azerbaijan, former Member of Parliament:I have never taken part in any meetings between Azerbaijani and Armenian intellectuals and I will never do so. I will never set foot in any such meeting. What is the use of such meetings, if you know in advance that nothing good comes out of it?191

   Target II. Marginalizing those who still communicate with Armenians
   In this case, the same mechanisms are employed as in cases described above, the only difference being that outrage targets other Azerbaijanis who have broken thetabooand contacted Armenians. The mildestpunishmentfor doing so comes down to rejection and calls to boycott theculprit. The worst case scenario may go as far as a questioning by the representatives of security services or even an arrest.
   Ilhama Guliyeva, khanende Alibaba Mammadov and Arif Babayev, People’s Artists of Azerbaijan192 condemned a young Azerbaijani singer who performed a mugham accompanied by an Armenian band of Armen Alexanyan in one of Moscow restaurants.
   Arif Babayev, People’s Artist, presidential scholarship holder:This is very, very bad. As if it were not enough that they are stealing our national music, this incident is just too much. I personally would never perform with Armenians.
   Ilhama Guliyeva, People’s Artist of Azerbaijan:I do not even want to discuss this matter. We must first find out what this is young girl’s ethnicity and why she committed such a deed. In general, I consider it to be a disgraceful fact for an Azerbaijani.
   The social networks saw an onslaught of a harassment campaign against the Meritorious Artist of AzerbaijanAybeniz Hashimova and her daughterAynishan Guliyeva. Aynishan, whose father was killed in Karabakh war, represented Azerbaijan at Slavianski Bazaar-2011 song contest. As reported by the website Fаktxeber.соm, some information about Aynishan befriending Armenia’s representative Narek Margaryan surfaced on the Facebook network.
   “She and her mother have even had themselves photographed with an Armenian. How can a shahid’s daughter who represents Azerbaijan befriend an Armenian?” says the website airing its indignation and reminding its readership that “it must be never forgotten that Armenians are the eternal enemies of Azerbaijanis”.193
   A famous singerTajir Shahmalioglu(Tасir Şаhmаlıоğlu) from the group Nightingales of Karabakh (Qаrаbаg Bulbulleri) became target of public verbal abuse and condemnation after the appearance of a music video where he sang a dual with an Armenian singer (who, as it transpired, was a Yezidi from Armenia, while Tajir himself is a Kurd)194 in one of the Moscow restaurants.
   As a result, he was forced to justify himself and reiterate his aversion to Armenians in the press.195&lt;…&gt; Tajir noted that he did not accept it when Azerbaijani singers performed together with Armenians:“This is just not right. About a year ago, I got a call from Moscow.
   It was an Armenian. He told me that they were my fans and offered me a fee of 50 thousand dollars for singing at a wedding. I turned him down and said that I didn’t need his 50 thousand dollars, which I would receive for singing at an Armenian wedding. No matter if it is 100 thousand or 1 million, for me, it equals a penny. Up to this day, when I see images of shahids on TV, I can’t hold back my tears. If my elders deem it necessary in the future, I am ready to go into battle with an assault rifle on my shoulder. And I will give away my life for Azerbaijan”.

   Target III. Marginalization of third persons who have contacts in both communities
   This category covers singers, actors, political figures, writers and public figures at international or regional levels.
   It must be noted that the Azerbaijani side keeps a very close and intent track of all references to Azerbaijan and Armenia on behalf of third persons and reacts sharply to any perceived tilting of thebalance. A slightest slant in favor of Armenia is viewed at the western coast of the Caspian Sea as a mortification unleashing an instant response.
   Apart from the well-known and repeatedly employed influencing techniques aimed at the domestic audience, other methods efficient in the given community are employed to discredit and marginalize theculpritgoing as far as to use fictitious evidence.
   This happened, for instance, with the Iranian singer Googoosh who wascaughtsinging a song in Armenian (the 60-year-old singer purportedly had an Armenian lover).
   The Azerbaijani website Day.Az:We could unearth sensational details about the singer’s decision. These details were communicated by Mr. Salman Pishnamaz, an Iranian national and native of Tabriz, who organizes the tours of Iranian artists in Azerbaijan. “For 2 years, I have been negotiating with her over her tours in Azerbaijan, but she procrastinated all the time. Then I discovered the reason. It became known that her Armenian boyfriend didn’t allow her to go on tour if he couldn’t go with her. And so he said: “She is not going anywhere without me!” fully aware that I cannot invite him to Azerbaijan. Moreover, she preferred to go with him to Armenia. So Googoosh’s Armenian boyfriend didn’t allow her to visit your country”, told S. Pishnamaz in his interview to Day. Az.196
   The Azerbaijani website 1news.az: A video has surfaced on the web which shows the famous Iranian singer Googoosh performing an Armenian song Zepyur Kdarnam. The Azerbaijani singer Yaqub Zurufcu declared that he severed all communication with Googoosh:“Now, she is of no interest to me. After this video appeared, we stopped talking. Today, her coming to Azerbaijan is out of the question.197
   The Azerbaijani website Azeritоdаy.соm: To be honest, we must think twice whether we need the coming to Azerbaijan of a singer who disregards the fact that Azerbaijan is at war with Armenia and who has continued up to recent years to perform Azerbaijani songs in Armenian.198

   Target IV. Countries and their services and goods boycotted by Azerbaijan for their cooperation with Armenians, with Armenia or for a disloyal attitude toward Azerbaijan
   Recently, after the French Parliament passed a law criminalizing the negation of the so-called Armenian Genocide, one of popular Azerbaijani radio stations proudly announced that it was about to“stop the broadcasting” of all French songs. In addition, it informed that at the time of signing Armenian-Turkish protocols in Zurich, it had temporarily refrained from airing Turkish songs.199
   In 2010, the broadcasting of TV channel Mir was stopped in Azerbaijan because the channel was airing a program entitled“Independence Day: Armenia”. The Azerbaijani cable television KA TV 1 notified its subscribers in Azerbaijan that the rebroadcasting of Mir TV channel on September 21 would be temporarily stopped between 4:05-4:25 p.m. by Baku time.200
   The Russian website NR2.ru:The Netherlands company Kales Airline Services, which is a partner of Azerbaijan Hava Yollari (Azerbaijani airlines), was forced under the pressure from Baku to fire its ticket sales agent Mary Sargsyan only because she was Armenian.201
   The Azerbaijani website ANS-Press:The online air ticket booking service OneTwоTrip started operating in May 2011 and can draw on a network of over 500 airline companies. The founders are Peter Kutis and Hovhannes Poghosyan.&lt;…&gt; It must be noted that there is a confirmed record of various Armenian products finding their way to the market of Azerbaijan. Thus, there have been repeated incidents of various victuals produced in Armenia (butter, coffee, etc.) appearing in our shops from unknown sources. Recently, there have been increasingly numerous cases of Armenian products permeating the Azerbaijani market. Competent authorities must tighten their control procedures to prevent similar cases in the future.202
   The Azerbaijani website 1news.az:The research has revealed that 100 % of surveyed Azerbaijanis answered ‘No’ to the question of whether airline companies operating on the territory of Azerbaijan were entitled to sell tickets for their flights through companies belonging in whole or in part to Armenians.
   100 % of the surveyed answered ‘Yes’ to the question of whether the airline companies operating on the territory of Azerbaijan and selling tickets for their flights through companies belonging in whole or in part to Armenians must be punished in some way.203
   The success of such campaigns is achieved through their impact on an essential component of all human needs– the need to be a part of the community. The notions of patriotism, affiliation with an ethnic or social group (you are not Azerbaijani) are exploited, and people are intimidated withscary storiesfrom remote and not so remote past (“all Armenians donated money toKrunk; they ripped open pregnant women; a nurse in the maternity hospital squeezed the testicles of new-born Azerbaijani boys” etc.)
   Here, the help of people who are highly reputed and respected in a given community is enlisted, so as they showcase by their own personal example therighteousline of conduct from the perspective of the dominating ideology. The fear of being ostracized and castigated, along with the existence of an external devious foe, firmly cements the self-awareness and bears fruit.

   The positive reference ban can be conventionally divided into three types:
   The first typeof the ban on positive reference to Armenians consists in excising all depictions (films, literary works or TV programs) that contain a reference to Armenians in the positive sense or which portray Armenia’s achievements; this ban also extends to engaging in joint projects with Armenians.
   After the motion picture In a Southern Town, another film by Azerbaijan’s people’s artist, director Eldar Guliyev went under ban. We refer to the motion picture Hostage in which an Armenian is portrayed as a positive character. According to the film’s plot, an Azerbaijani named Karim becomes a prisoner of Armenia during the Karabakh war. To swap him for another prisoner, the villagers decide to give Karim’s wife an Armenian hostage. Over time, she comes to discover the positive traits of the Armenian man.204
   After the information on the involvement of Azerbaijanis from Georgia in the shooting of an Armenian film entitled“Open Door” surfaced on the web, the information agency of Azerbaijan turned for commentary to Zumrud Gurbanli who is one of the leaders of Gheyrat movement for Georgia-based Azerbaijanis and who stated that “no Azerbaijani living in Georgia would ever agree to appear in a film shot by Armenians”.205
   The second type of bansconsists in stripping theculpritof any chance to pursue a professional activity and firing the person routinelyby own wishoron the demands of the staff (the people). The charges ofsuperfluous feelings of sympathy towards Armeniansbecome a sufficient ground to spell doom for the accused.
   The journalist Asef Guliyevwas fired for his participation in an international conference on Freedom of Information in Caucasus held in Armenia on July 11–14, 2010. Immediately upon his return from Yerevan, the journalist was offered to quit of his own accord. However, he refused to do so. In addition, Guliyev emphasized that he did not represent public television at the conference, but took the trip while he was on vacation.206
   On the initiative of the PACE rapporteur on the South Caucasus, Leo Platvoet,and the Chairperson of the delegation of the European Parliament to Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, Marie Anne Isler Béguin, a concert by the Caucasian chamber orchestra was given on PACE premises in 2007. The orchestra was directed by conductor Uwe Berkemer (Germany). The organizers’ artistic intent for the concert was that musicians from three countries of the Southern Caucasus showed the harmony needed by the nations of the region. However, the authorities of Azerbaijan forbade Azerbaijani musicians to participate in the concert. Then, the musicians from Armenia and Georgia also played the works of Azerbaijani composers to support their fellow musicians.207
   Rovshan Nasirli:On August 12, I was summoned to the Ministry of National Security and questioned why I had voted for the representatives of Armenia. I was accused of not being patriotic because Armenia occupied territory belonging to Azerbaijan.&lt;…&gt; The representatives of special services had the names and telephone numbers of 43 persons who had voted for the Armenian duo whose song‘Jan Jan’ had ranked tenth in final of the Eurovision song contest held in Moscow in May of this year.&lt;…&gt; If it’s about a war, why then the officials of Azerbaijan, for example, Polad Bülbüloğlu, the ambassador to Russia, as well as members of the parliament visit Armenia?208
   The third type of bansconcerns in the first place reputed and influential persons taking the form of obstruction, defamation and public vilification in the press and may go as far as to include an entry ban or even threats of arrest.
   In 2012, a group of staff members from the Azerbaijan Theater of Young Spectators filed a request with the Ministry of Culture to fire the“mercenary” artistic directorJannat Salimovaon the ground that she was a“Zionist and armenophile”.
   A. Idrisoglu:“J. Salimova must be released from her position”.&lt;…&gt;“She only engages in staging classical works without giving us a chance to stage the topical works of modern authors”.&lt;…&gt;“In her performances, she discredits the people of Azerbaijan”.209
   N. Kyazimov: With her mixed Jewish and Lezgin ethnicity, she treats us, the staff of the theater, as a stepmother. Moreover, in a dispute with a staff member of the theater, she declared:“I love the Jewish people and I want that everybody knows that I have utmost love for the great Armenian people and I bow my head before them”. Though she renounces these words, but facts remain. I think that she must be dismissed, as a person like her has no right to work with our children.210
   The case of Rustam Ibragimbekov, in whom the existing system discerned a threat, is quite emblematic. Here, a familiar arsenal of epithets is at play, such as:“Armenian servant”, “armenophile” and other similar abuse.
   Yeni Azerbaijan: Rustam Ibragimbekovis ill-mannered, immoral and armenophile.&lt;…&gt; His invitation of the film director Roman Balayan and a certain Rudik Ovanesov who worked in one of Azerbaijan’s Ministries in the soviet times to take part in the Serq-Qerb (East-West) festival in Baku at the expense of the organizers is quoted as evidence of his sympathies towards Armenians.
   Niyameddin Ordukhanli, Deputy Chairman of the Azerbaijani Popular Front Party for political matters: Ibragimbekov directly serves the interests of Armenia and Russia.
   Ibragimbekov was not allowed to enter Baku.At Heydar Aliyev Airport of Baku, after an hour-long detention by the border service, one of the border guards said to the dramatist as he returned him his passport:“We don’t recognize you just as you don’t recognize our supreme commander-in-chief (i.e. the President of Azerbaijan)”. To this, Ibragimbekov replied: “I have never said that I do not recognize him. I said that if he did not recognize me, then I would not recognize him”. Ibragimbekov also pointed out to the border guard: “If you do not recognize me, then I will not recognize you”.211
   Ali Ahmedov, executive secretary of the ruling party Yeni Azerbaijan (YAP):Every citizen of Azerbaijan must loathe the approach, thinking and ideology of Rustam Ibragimbekov”, said the deputy chairman in his statement to the journalists on Wednesday. – “Rustam Ibragimbekov, who considers himself an Azerbaijani intellectual, doubts that Karabakh is an Azerbaijani land. I believe that this inflicts a severe damage to the national interests of Azerbaijan.212
   Frequently, authorities invoke contacts with Armenians and alleged armenophile feelings against their political opponents in a preemptive strike or in the hope that this may discredit them to the extent of wrecking their career.
   Siyavush Novruzov, Member of Parliament, deputy executive secretary of the ruling party Yeni Azerbaijan:This comes to prove once again that Ali Karimli and his clique are ready to be in league with the devil himself to come to power.&lt;…&gt; We have seen this repeatedly. At one time, the people of Ali Karimli even negotiated with Armenians in Georgia and received money from them. And now as elections draw near in Azerbaijan, we have seen how these people together with Armenians act against successful initiatives and reforms implemented in the country as well as against those who serve their motherland. They are ready to cooperate with Armenians only to grab some place in the power structure of Azerbaijan.213
   Fazail Agamali, chairman of the political party Ana Vatan, Member of Parliament:I wouldn’t like to specify any names yet, but I have every reason to say that a number of opposition parties of Azerbaijan are funded from sources closely related to Armenia.&lt;…&gt; I have been talking about the Armenian funding of opposition parties for over a year.&lt;…&gt; Non-governmental organizations can also be used for funding purposes”.&lt;…&gt;“He is confident that political parties which accept this assistance fall under the influence of Armenians”, reports Zerkalo newspaper.214
   The Azerbaijani website Hurriyyet.net:The information spread through social networks concerning the commander-in-chief of the general staff of the Azerbaijani armed forces, General Najmaddin Sadikhov and his close relative or, more precisely, the son of his uncle by his paternal side who is a serviceman in the Russian military base№ 102 stationed in Gyumri (Armenia) has become widely known. It is reported that N. Sadikhov maintains contacts with his cousin who is a colonel on the said military base and meets him at least once a month on the territory of Dagestan. It is of note that despite the fact that this information has been around for quite a while, neither competent law enforcement authorities nor independent military experts voiced their position. This fact itself constituting a very tangible threat to the security of the country should have long come under a thorough scrutiny. However, for some reasons knownto all, considering the high rank and standing of the person in question in the country, competent authorities keep their silence.&lt;…&gt;. Abusing his close ties with the leadership of the country, he achieved a position where nobody can point a finger at him and alert to what is obvious. We believe that there will be time when N. Sadikhov will be called to answer for all his deeds, and that day is near.215
   Warped notions of atrue patriotismand the code of conduct of apure-blooded Azerbaijaniare channeled towards hatred, which is cloaked by the term tolerance and is extensively instilled in the minds of the people convinced of their tolerance whichfor a known reasonomits Armenians.
   In the village Tumbul of Babek region of Nakhichevan, a member of the Public Chamber, Ibragim Ibragimli was severely beaten up for“attempting to profess among the villagers the need for a peaceful coexistence with Armenians without any conditions”. Next, I. Ibragimli started defending the writer Akram Naibov (Akram Aylisli) targeted by a nationwide criticism as well as the ideas of his novel “Stone Dreams”, which incensed those present”.216
   The names of prominent Azerbaijani activists and journalists who had Armenian friends on Facebook made public by the Azerbaijani news outlet Qаynаr.Info on March 1, 2011 represented an attempt to discredit them.217
   Eduard Bagirov, a Russian writer of Azerbaijani origin, offered on his Facebook page condolences to the Armenian people in relation to the Armenian Genocide Memorial Day. The Azerbaijani writer Natig Rasulzadeh gave the following commentary on the situation:“The only thing I can say with confidence is that this man cannot be Azerbaijani no matter if he is from Moscow, Baku or Turkmenistan. You can have an Azerbaijani name all you want, but it doesn’t mean yet that you are an Azerbaijani at heart. Judging from his statement, at heart he is anybody,save a Bagirov”.218
   In late May 2013, the Azerbaijani press reported that a new bill“On the Occupied Territories of Azerbaijan”was being prepared for submission and discussion at the Milli Majlis of Azerbaijan:
   The Azerbaijani website APA: The citizens of Azerbaijan who cooperate with any organization in Armenia will be subject to criminal liability.
   Any citizen of Azerbaijan, who cooperates with any organization and structure in Armenia before the complete liberation of lands from occupation, will be subject to criminal liability”. “This is reflected in Article 7 of the new bill “On the Occupied Territories of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
   The article says that the citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan (with the exception of the representatives of central executive bodies participating in the peace talks on the liberation of the occupied lands of Azerbaijan, diplomatic missions and those who are duly authorized to this effect by the decision of Milli Majlis), who cooperate with governmental and non-governmental institutions, judicial and legislative bodies, political parties, public associations, the media, public and private commercial and non-profit entities as well as their representatives, will be held criminally liable under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
   The second part of the article sets forth prohibitions covering nationals of foreign countries.“All foreign state and non-state actors, their representatives and nationals of foreign countries working on the territory of Azerbaijan shall be precluded from cooperating with the occupant state on all activities laid down in Article 6(1) hereof or from participating, directly or indirectly, insuch activities, as well as from partaking in the decision-making process related to such activities. These sanctions shall apply to all legal and natural persons”.219
   However, the existence of the bill is denied by Parliament’s press service.
   The press-service of the Milli Majlis stated that reports on the preparation of any such bill in the Parliament are false. None of the parliamentary committees has discussed or intends to discuss any such bill.220
   Here, a quote from Rauf Mirkadyrov seems much to the point:“We have long refused to speak reasoning that we are in a state of war with Armenia; yet, we never actually started the war. And we called traitors those who wished to speak while the guns were silent”.221
   7. Armenian origin of non-conformists
   The authorities of Azerbaijan are hypersensitive to criticism or to any negative manifestation or assessment from both the international community and the domestic audience. The entire state machinery is geared up to create an image of successful, tolerant, decent, transparent and creative system.
   According to the reports of international monitoring organizations or relatively independent local researchers and the media, the portrayal offered by the Azerbaijani authorities is quite far from the reality.
   While the authorities of Azerbaijan accuse the international organizations of their“biased judgment” and application of “double standards”, the local, mostly opposition-oriented news outlets expose on a regular basis “disgraceful” facts that are at odds with the country’s image advertised by the authorities. The authors of such publications draw fire from state-controlled media, members of the parliament,researchersand non-governmental organizations which wage a war against dissidents using their familiar arsenal of techniques; they search and detect traces of Armenian involvement (lobby) or dig up Armenian roots in those who circulate these“disgraceful” facts or commit deeds blackwashing the country’s bright image.
   It is no secret that Azerbaijanis at grass roots level live a hard life“in the richest country of the region”. The ubiquitous corruption, violations of human rights and freedom of speech, tyranny and persecution, the unresolved issue of “reclaiming Karabakh”, incessant and never materializing promises of war lead to some legitimate questions. Who is to blame?
   The answer is always ready at hand; it is all about external enemies who are jealous of Azerbaijan’s prosperity and seek to discredit it. This “campaign against Azerbaijan” is invariably ascribed to ethnic Armenians who are the instigators, masterminds and guiding hands behind it. This holds true for inside and outside Azerbaijan.
   Overall, the efforts of the authorities to play down their own guilt and to duck any responsibility can be conventionally divided into several categories:
   – omnipotent Armenian lobby;
   – the domestic population of overt or covert Armenians (the same “30,000 Armenians” who still live in Azerbaijan);
   – Armenian lineage, spouses or business partners, etc.
   According to the reports of the Azerbaijani press, persons attributable under the above categories can be classified by a number of characteristics.

   In Azerbaijan:
   – Persons who plague the ruling regime through their criticism, exposures or excessive zeal in their fight for human rights and freedom of speech.
   The newspaper Yeni Azerbaijan accused the independentAzerbaijani journalist Khadija Ismayilovaof Armenian origin solely on the ground that she refused to speak about her kins.“Ismayilova never speaks about her kins and made no reaction to the allegations of the Xalq Cebhesi newspaper claiming that her grandmother is Armenian.222 Sources close to the newspaper have extensive data on this subject, and Khadija fears exposure. This is only a part of the shocking details about her, which we do not make public for ethical reasons. It is of note that certain persons who consider themselves Azerbaijanis still call Khadija“the epitome of journalism”, “the champion of moral values” and “the mouthpiece of justice and rights” speaking in her defense,” states the newspaper.223
   As early as in 2009, the Baybak.com website reported that Khadija Ismayilova had refuted the allegations of Xalq Cebhesi newspaper about her Armenian grandmother, however, only the information agencies Turan and Yeni Musavat agreed to publish her rebuttal.
   Seymur Bayjan, Azerbaijani writer: Starting from 2003, I began realizing that our mindset fouls up our lives. What people call the mentality is a downright torment. I started writing about it, but many did not understand me and still don’t. They call me Armenian, Jewish, Freemason, gay and spy.224
   Ali Hasanov, a department head at the Presidential Administration:Don’t you think that those, who receive grants from the Armenian lobby and from the pro-Armenian circles and sling mud at our state from international platforms by depicting Armenians as oppressed and Azerbaijanis as savage brutes and telling foreigners who come to our country all kinds of falsehoods, justly deserve the scorn of the people?225
   – Persons implicated in corruption scandals or failing to comply with their professional duties thereby inflicting damage to the area of their responsibility.
   Fazail Agamali, Member of Parliament:“The mother of Ilgar Rahimov, the Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Protection of Population, was a representative of a different nation, and even her funeral was organized in Christian rather than Muslim traditions and was accompanied by the playing of clarinet. I support Tagi Ahmedov. Strategical posts must be held by pure-blooded Azerbaijanis”, said the parliamentarian.226
   Hafiz Hajiyev, leader of the political party Modern Musavat: Did you know that there are some people in power who have Armenian wives and mothers? It’s them who constitute the main threat to our country. Not so long ago, I saw one of such officials in a restaurant accompanied by a female singer. Their conduct was so outrageous that I was ashamed that Azerbaijan had such public officials.227
   The former member of the parliament from the ruling party, Gular Ahmadova, who was caught dealing in parliamentary seats as the main protagonist of a scandal dubbed in the Azerbaijani press as Gulargate,is accused, among other things, of having an Armenian grandmother. Specifically, the Azerbaijani information agency Olaylar reported:“Another fact was revealed on the former Member of the Parliament Gular Ahmadova. Sources well-informed of Ahmadova’s pedigree report that her grandmother was Armenian. Although the ex-parliamentarian had changed all data in her grandmother’s paperwork, the fact was well known to her inner circle. The same source affirms that the incredulous may want to find the address of Ahmadova’s grandmother in the media dating back to 2002, which describes their relationships…”228
   Interestingly, before Ahmadova fell from favor, she appeared in the list of“those with pure blood” and no one had the slightest idea of her Armenian roots, and what is more, she was a staunch advocate of the anti-Armenian campaign.
   Baby vipers grow:I recall from the remote days of my childhood, as we played in the courtyard with Armenian children, my mother constantly warned me: baby vipers grow. And with age, I realized that indeed, baby vipers grow.229
   – Persons who must be compromised to meet the needs of the day or out of personal motives.
   “It is most likely that at this advanced age, he betrayed Azerbaijan and Azerbaijani people to serve a nation to which he belongs at genetic level”, said the deputy chairman of the Yeni Azerbaijan political party hinting at the Armenian origin ofthe writer Akram Aylisli.230
   Hurriyyet.net published an exposing article to denounce the fact that YaqubEyyubov, First Deputy Prime Minister of Azerbaijan became related with Armenians.“His niece in Kazakhstan married an Armenian. According to well-informed sources within power circles, a group of high-ranking Azerbaijani public officials attended the wedding, including Eyyubov himself. Azerbaijanis drank toasts to the relatives of the newlyweds and gave speeches on the “brotherhood between the peoples of Azerbaijan and Armenia”.&lt;…&gt; Note must be taken of the fact that Eyyubov is not a plain citizen; he holds a key position in the government of the country. In a time when the discussion over Ramil Safarov’s case still goes on, such close ties of a high-ranking official with Armenians give rise to serious moral and ethical problems for the authorities in the public mind. If we factor in the statement of the president at the meeting with Azerbaijani ambassadors to the effect that the Armenian lobbyis Azerbaijan’s number one enemy, it can be safely affirmed that the situation looks highly unfavorable for Eyyubov”, says the website.231
   – Citizens, predominantly comprised of the young people or rural residents who are fed up with the lawlessness and demand enjoyment of their rights
   The young activists who initiated protest actions in Baku in March 2011had their Armenian origin“unearthed”. Groups taggedMarch 11were opened in social networks containing appeals for public rallies and boycott of the authorities.232
   Abel Maharramov, Rector of the Baku State University:“Many of those who exhort people to a protest action over Facebook social network are of Armenian origin”.&lt;…&gt; The Rector added that an investigation was in progress to find out if there were any students of the Baku State University among them. We have checked; many of them have Armenian origin, and they intend to sow unrest in the country. This gives rise to a question: is it not enough that you have occupied our lands, so you are now sparking unrest to top it off? Why are they doing this? This happens because today Armenia is in a very tough situation. The teaching staff and the students of the university spurned these calls and have no intention to take part in any action whatsoever. There are isolated cases of students, mostly with poor academic record who have failed their exams. They think of other, negative things. You can find such people everywhere, especially in Armenia. We have conferred with these students, and they have realized that they ought not to walk this path”, said the rector.233
   Representative of the ruling party:I want to clearly state that the young people of Azerbaijan do not support these ideas. There are many Armenians among those who come up with such appeals. Undoubtedly, these appeals by Armenians who have grabbed Azerbaijani lands are aimed against our country, because Armenians never support ideas that benefit Azerbaijan. I suggest that these young people make appeals for the liberation of Azerbaijani lands. I address all young people: you cannot stand together with those who circulate appeals supported by Armenians.234
   – Criminal and marginalized elements whose presence seems to be viewed as a disgrace to the country
   The Azerbaijani singer Mehrimaccused a certain Samir Aliyev, who had hijacked her Mitsubishi brand vehicle, of having Armenian origin.“I met this person at the presentation of the music video by Javanshir Babelioglu. He told me that he could help me release a solo album. Then, it turned out that he was just a fraud who had earlier worked as a guard at a bank office. Recently, I’ve found out that this person is of Armenian origin. People like him who do nothing but harm to the society must be caged and held behind the bars”, said the singer.235

   Outside Azerbaijan
   – Persons held responsible by the Azerbaijani side for action or inaction to the detriment of Azerbaijan
   In the run-up to the arrival ofBoutros Boutros-Ghali, former 6th UN Secretary General from 1992 to 1996, in Baku, the Azerbaijani news agency Vesti.az scanned the former secretary general, who advocated the acknowledgment of the Armenian Genocide, for traces of any Armenian lineage. Ahmed Shirinov, head of the Center for Strategic Planning of Azerbaijan, stated in an interview with the agency that back in 1993, when Boutros-Ghali was UN Secretary General, four resolutions on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan were passed by the UN Security Council.“He did nothing for the enforcement of these resolutions. And do you know why? Because he is Armenian”, assured Shirinov with confidence.236
   Ali Hasanov, Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the State Committee for Affairs of Refugees and IDPs stated that Armenians could capture Shushi and Lachin with the help ofRussia’s former Defense Minister Pavel Grachev.“It is no secret that P. Grachev’s mother was Armenian”, stated the Deputy Prime Minister with confidence.237
   “Not only was Mr. Solovyov completely unaware of the subject of the discussion, but he lacked basic journalistic ethics and misplaced his personal attitude to a nation stemming from his partial views and marital status (it is known that Solovyov’s wife is Armenian238)”.
   Mubariz Ahmadoglu, Head of the Center for Political Innovations and Technologies:During his recent airtime, Vladimir Solovyov could finally contrive a pretext to show his true attitude towards our country. He is a virulent hater of Azerbaijan and even perceives its people as animals. In fact, he serves Armenians by playing dirty tricks on our country. It is worthy of note that Solovyov’s wife is Armenian, and he has previously worked on a TV channel funded by Armenians. Therefore, in all of his programs, he seeks all possible ways to do Azerbaijan a bad turn.239
   – Officials of international organizations who have “wronged” Azerbaijan in discharging their professional duties, released scathing reports about Azerbaijan’s political establishment or gave a critical commentary in respect of the country’s authorities.
   Bakhtiyar Sadigov, editor-in-chief of the official newspaper Azerbaijan, in his commentary on the criticalFreedom Housereport tagging Azerbaijan as not free stated that the organization’s criticism of Azerbaijan should be disregarded as “this organization is funded by Armenians and operates under their supervision”.240
   Ogtay Asadov, the Speaker of the Azerbaijani Parliament, in his speech at parliamentary session in May 2012, aired his dissatisfaction with the position of theEuropean Parliamentwhich had adopted a critical resolution on the human rights situation in Azerbaijan. According to him, the leadership of Azerbaijan put in every effort to create a climate of festivity, in response to which“the hirelings of the Armenian lobby” fabricated biased and fictitious publications in the western media. “Some forces within the orbit of the Armenian lobby are envious of the welfare and prosperity of our state”, said the parliamentarians during the discussion.241
   In 2012, the website Qafqazinfo.az accused theinternational presspublishing critical articles on Azerbaijan during the Eurovision 2012 song contest.“Hundreds of Armenian journalists from across the globe were accredited to cover the Eurovision song contest in Baku on behalf of various news outlets for a biased coverage of the situation in Azerbaijan”, writes the website and quotes the example of Margarita Antidze, Reuters Agency correspondent in Southern Caucasus who was diagnosed by the Azerbaijani media as having Armenian origin.242
   Ali Aliyev, Chairman of the Citizens and Development Party (CDP), stated in his turn that a group of spies cloaked as journalists had come to Azerbaijan during the Eurovision song contest.
   In order to reinforce its reasoning, justify its position and show the righteousness of its cause, the Azerbaijani propaganda quotes examples of the destructive role of Armenians or people with Armenian background from the experience of other countries (Abkhazia,243 Turkey244,245 Georgia246 and Uzbekistan247). Not infrequently, the information is either false or hypothetical (“must be of Armenian origin”, “most likely is of Armenian descent”, “quite probably of Armenian lineage”).
   The examples referenced above clearly showcase the entire extent and scope of the armenophobia instilled in the minds of the people.
   8. Armenophobia in official statements
   Any authority that holds instruments and potential for shaping ideology, public opinion, vision and perception of the reality is responsible for the consequences of its statements and any acts committed on their basis.
   Therefore, with reference to the armenophobia rampant in Azerbaijan at the level of official propaganda and ideology, it is appropriate to point out that it is public officials who mainly set the tone for this: members of the parliament, functionaries of various levels, including the country’s president, and the consequences of their statements translate into a public consciousness and line of conduct.
   Azerbaijan’s political establishment is the main supplier of public moods and the country’s trendsetter which covers, inter alia, armenophobia. It is of note that their thinking and actions are absolutely void of self-reflection; the same people who profess aggression and bigotry are genuinely convinced of their own tolerance and find it ludicrous to suggest that their actions amount to racism and xenophobia.
   President Aliyevconsiders laughable the statements of the Armenian head of state on racism and armenophobia in Azerbaijan.248
   Ilham Aliyev, the President of Azerbaijan:“Our political weight and economic might keep growing.&lt;…&gt; However, there are forces which dislike us and wish us evil. They can be divided into several groups: In the first place, our main enemy is the global Armeniandom as well as hypocritical politicians who do their bidding enmeshed in corruption and bribery”.249
   Allahshukur Pashazadeh:“Azerbaijan is an exemplar of the tolerance and interfaith dialog”.250
   Allahshukur Pashazadeh:‘’We do everything possible to settle this conflict in a peaceful way.&lt;…&gt; However, we don’t see the results of these meetings because the lie and treachery sit in the blood of Armenians. They sat at our tables, they ate our bread, but when they went out, they spoke against us”.251
   Mubariz Ahmadoglu, head of the Center for Political Innovations and Technologies:“The Azerbaijani weapons are capable of destroying any target on the territories controlled by Armenians, including in Armenia itself… when I say any target, I mean the nuclear power plant in Metsamor and the address Baghramyan 26 in Yerevan…. Let them take pity on their own kins and relatives as well as the family members of the military personnel. Searching for bodies of the Armenian soldiers killed by thermobaric weapons may become the primary task of their relatives…It must be considered that weapons are mindless. In this sense, it appears that Armenians want to match their own ignorance to the mindlessness of weapons. We just want to advise Armenians against doing so”.252
   The range and variety of inculcated stereotypes covers virtually all aspects of social, political, cultural, mental, historical and moral image of Armenians and Armenia.
   Abulfaz Elchibey, ex-president of Azerbaijan:Armenians are not capable of building a state. Over the course of their history, Armenians have never built a state and have never been a state-building nation. Russians have built the state for Armenians; they always commanded: Stand there! Sit here!253
   Igrar Aliyev, academician, Director of the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan:Indeed, the Armeniandom is an extraordinary, singular, malicious and misanthropic phenomenon.254
   Mubariz Ahmadoglu, political analyst:The aggression and usurpation of other peoples’ territories are intrinsic to the Armenian mentality and are accordingly reflected in the Armenian Constitution adopted in 1991”.255
   Abulfaz Garayev, Minister of Culture and Tourism of Azerbaijan:As long as the people and culture of Azerbaijan exist, we will be exposed to the Armenian plagiarism.256
   Vagif Aliyev, First Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism:What do we have to do to make Armenians shut up? Doubtlessly, every act of Armenians contradicts the international rules and standards. Armenians are a breed of a sort that will be judged by the history itself.257
   Siyavush Novruzov, deputy executive secretary of the ruling party Yeni Azerbaijan (YAP):Our party does not accept Armenian members. Some applications to this effect were filed to our regional and city offices, but they were all turned down. Today, not a single Armenian can be found in our ranks.258
   Bayram Safarov, head of the Azerbaijani Community of Nagorno-Karabakh:The Karabakh conflict has grown from territorial claims between two nations into a war between Christians and Muslims. Today, our enemies are not only Armenians, but also the Christian world that defends them.259
   Azerbaijan’s ambassador to the Council of Europeadvises Armenians against sleeping in peace as long as the Karabakh conflict remains unresolved.“Before the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the occurrence of incidents similar to that of Budapest – reference is made to the murder of an Armenian military officer in his sleep in Budapest – cannot be ruled out”. This statement was made today by the ambassador of Azerbaijan to the Council of Europe at the session of one of the committees of this organization.260
   Elchin Alibeyli, anchorman, general producer of ATV television channel: For many years Armenians have been stealing Azerbaijani tunes and presenting them to the international community as their own.&lt;…&gt; Armenians steal not only from Azerbaijanis; it is their national malady. The matter is that if a nation lacks history and culture, which is confirmed by the Armenian historians, they must shape themselves at the expense of other nations and therefore, they have decided to steal from their Azerbaijani neighbors&lt;…&gt;. No matter where they lived, Armenians always stole from these peoples their culture and even their language.261
   Colonel Eldar Sabiroglu, head of the press-service of the Ministry of Defense: They shamelessly accuse us of provocations. What is their purpose? It is clear that in this way the perfidious enemy is trying to plant a false idea in the minds of the Azerbaijani people. Lying is in their blood.262
   Ziyafat Asgarov, First Vice-Speaker of the Parliament:It is hard to purge the‘Armenian’ pest. The longer it remains without cure, the harsher its consequences are. Its aggravation harms the Armenians themselves. This fictitious genocide of theirs has no underlying historical, legal or moral basis. Armenians simply live off this fantasy, this disorder of theirs. This relates to territorial claims to their neighboring countries: Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey, and even Russia, although it is Russia that provides for Armenia.263
   Recommendations on how to resolve issues related to Armenians and Armenia
   Heydar Aliyev, Azerbaijan’s ex-president:In the future, we must create works so as they continuously and constantly prove the claims of Azerbaijan to the lands that host today’s Armenia. We must do this. We must pave the way for generations to come.264
   Vafa Guluzadeh, political analyst, the former government adviser:Let them go and study Hitler’s experience from the 1930s to see what a splendid army he created. The Hitlerjugend established by him was much more efficient than the pioneer organization of the Soviets. This is the reason why Germany suffered the least casualties in that war. In a short time, the German army could capture the entire Europe and Russia’s European regions. To put it simply, I want that we, just like the Hitler supporters, make preparations for war in all seriousness.265
   Mubariz Ahmadoglu, political analyst:Azerbaijani missiles will cover the distance to Metsamor nuclear power plant and nuclear waste storage facilities in an incomparably shorter time than is necessary for any government to recognize the state named Nagorno-Karabakh. This scenario can be prevented only by the signing of a BPA (Big Peace Agreement) which can become a new resource in Karabakh conflict settlement.266
   Adil Haribov, Director of the Institute for Radiation Problems of ANASsuggested provoking an artificial earthquake with a magnitude of 9 in Armenia to test the resilience of Metsamor nuclear power plant under extreme conditions.267
   Polad Bülbüloğlu, Azerbaijan’s ambassador to the Russian Federation:&lt;…&gt; Every Azerbaijani must take part in the liberation of our lands.&lt;…&gt; If the military path is chosen to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, much will depend on Azerbaijanis who live in Russia, and each of us must be ready for this. If anybody hopes to stay behind and sit snug at home, while the army fights to reclaim our lands, that won’t be happening. The entire country, the whole society, all the people must rise and clench themselves into a single fist to back our president and liberate the lands. It cannot be otherwise.268
   Anar Mamedkhanov, ex-member of the parliament of Azerbaijan:I keep telling our officers who study military science in Turkey:“You are needed in Karabakh. They (Armenians) must be killed in Karabakh and not in other countries.269
   Abulfaz Elchibey, ex-president of Azerbaijan:Armenians, Kurds, Lezgins, Circassians and Romanies are our internal enemies. Can you see how many enemies we’ve got? Prepare well before delivering your blow. May Allah help you!270
   Another much admired form of inculcating armenophobia consists in parading one’s own personal input or details of one’s life necessarily depicting episodes related to humiliating, insulting or harassing Armenians.
   Arif Gaziyev, founder and head ofMughamtheater:We always started fights during the breaks, and as the school was not far from a river, we often cut the classes to gather there singing and playing hide-and-seek. But the most memorable detail was probably how we flung stones at Armenians who always sought to play some dirty tricks.271
   Igbal Aghazadeh,272 chairman of the political partyUmid:At the time, I did my military service in the Soviet Army, in the Kemerovo Oblast. It was in 1988. Azerbaijanis were in a desperate plight. There were just too many Armenians there. After I returned to Baku, the Sumgait events were the talk of the town.&lt;…&gt; We realized that our people were obliterating Armenians and we looked positively at the fact.&lt;…&gt; Yes, it happened as I was a 5th grade student. We had this teacher of Russian, Alla Petrovna Chebarina. She used to look down on us as a nation by treating us disparagingly and insulting us. We frequently debated with her, but she continued to humiliate us. Once, as she left the classroom, I broke her umbrella, though later I had to pay 27 rubles for it.273
   The unabashed propaganda of armenophobia at the highest level could not but draw the attention of the international community.Global Post, an American online newspaper notes that the President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev not only doesn’t like Armenia, but is not afraid to say it, nor to tweet it. President Ilham Aliyev’s Twitter followers were treated to a string of more than 30 messages about his neighbor that were distinctly undiplomatic and, in fact, can be considered as downright abusive. “It’s tempting to imagine Aliyev hunched in solitude over a laptop like so many an online troll”.274
   Foreign Policy, an American magazine, asks:“What do Azerbaijan, Estonia and Rwanda have in common? Not very much, you say? Au contraire! All three countries, it seems, have presidents who are prone to picking fights on Twitter”. “The lesson in all this for world leaders? If you’re going to pick a fight with somebody and want people to notice, you’d better do it in 140 characters at a time”, says the journal.275
   Heydar Aliyev, ex-president of Azerbaijan, in his speech pronounced on October 13, 1999 in Nakhichevan said: In times of trouble, the people of Azerbaijan saw the help of Turkey and the Turkish people and is grateful for that. Particularly, in 1918–1919, during the struggle for independence under the leadership of the great Atatürk, who cleansed his land of Armenians and other enemies, the Turkish people and Turkey offered their help to Azerbaijan, to Nakhychivan.276
   9. Armenophobia in the mass media
   The process of intensifying anti-Armenian propaganda and planting hatred in the society must be viewed in the context of an aggression targeting the Armenian identity and the Armenian statehood.
   The mass media and journalists have carved out a special niche in this process as they are on the one hand active consumers of this state propaganda and ideology, being at its forefront in dealing directly with their patrons and masterminds without any mediation unlike general public, and on the other hand, they act as the very partisans and agents who translate the propaganda and ideology into the reality.
   In this context, the Azerbaijani journalism is under double pressure; after taking its fair share of hatred and aggression, it runs them through itself to pour into the masses now clad in their own judgments and vision tinged and worded as they deem fit.
   With the fueling of the aggressive sentiments and incessant but empty promises of a looming showdown, the problem of venting the bottled up charge of the negative feelings still persists. Without this vent, the aggression and hatred get channeled inwards which leads to rampant crime, spiking suicide rate and other social calamities.
   All of this can bring abouta frustration aggression,i.e. the aggression aimed against those who become an obstacle in achieving the significant goal. And the significant goal in the modern Azerbaijani society is shifted from the primary to secondary needs; that is to say, the solution to problems related to social and living conditions, legal issues, culture and education has been ousted by armenophobia and its ensuing mission of“reclaiming Karabakh”. And until the return of Karabakh and the annihilation of Armenians,277 the age of happiness will not dawn on land of Azerbaijan.
   The journalists, who unlike the general public enjoy an opportunity to express their emotions, but lack direct access to target of their hatred, displace their aggression from the frustration dimension into the verbal plane. In this way they meet the needs of their patrons (the authorities), their consumers (the people) and their own.
   The blatant manifestation of the verbal aggression is the barrage of verbal abuse from the leading Azerbaijani press, which can be defined as an active direct verbal aggression278. The active direct verbal aggression is a form of an aggression that amounts to inflicting psychological damage using mostly such components of speech as insults and humiliation of another person, group or community.
   It must be noted that, apart from their own analysts, the Azerbaijani mass media actively quote experts, historians and artists from both Azerbaijan and abroad; foreigners are invited to Baku and are willingly given platform for airing disparaging comments about Armenians. And the grosser and harsher the outrage, the more positive response it meets from the Azerbaijani community, civil society and power structures.
   The range of free wording choices and the set of categories is quite extensive.

   Commonplace insults and obscenities
   If we compare all states of the world taken together with one big family, then undoubtedly, the“Great Armenia” will be reserved a role of a little freak in that family. This little freak is constantly unhappy about something and, unlike the others, keeps trying to play some dirty trick or steal something. But when requested to give back the stolen, the little freak goes off crying bitterly, screaming, howling and squealing like a pig saying that nobody loves him. What is strange, however, is that his elder brothers Ivan, Jean and John don’t even think of punishing this insufferable freak; instead, they encourage him in all ways possible, tap him on the shoulder whetting even morethe voracious appetite of this grab-all. They bolster and help him with the crumbs from the master’s table. The cousin Singh could not stand aside and see the misery of the poverty-stricken little freak and gave him several hundred autobuses as a gift”.279
   Only after Turkey agreed to accept them, they were simply deported from the“great Kherostan”280 and ripping them off their last money for their stay and use of the public toilet.&lt;…&gt; You shouldn’t attack Azerbaijan and Ramil Safarov like a jackal. It is not up to you to evaluate our actions; you need brains for that and not the “basturma of Ejmiatsin.281
   Hey, base enemy! Rest assured that we will take not only Karabakh, but the entire Iryavan; this is our supreme goal. We will wipe off the face of the earth you and your fake state. Our patience is exhausted. Each day, we’ll save the world from hundreds of Armenians. Don’t count on your ‘uncle’ [Sam], ‘bear’ [Russia] or your ‘wenches’; it’s too late now, we’ve given you enough time to get the hell out of our lands. Hey, worthless ones! Rest assured our glorious flag will fly over our land once again before the doomsday. Let nobody forget the price in blood we have paid defending our Homeland! We will fight until there are no more Armenians on the face of the earth!282

   Comparison of Armenians with plant and animal species or microorganisms
   The Armeniandom is like a variety of flu. There is the swine flu, and there is the Armenian flue. Indeed, why there should be no‘true Armenian flu’, if there is the Armenian vacuum cleaner, Armenian corn or Armenian coat? All would have been fine, if this contagion had not turned into an epidemic which must be fiercely fought off. We started by comparing Armenians with a contagion for a reason. I have repeatedly writtenthat killing this virus is possible only by understanding its nature, becoming immune to it and destroying it without mercy”.283
   It is known that the jackal is a quite timid animal, which, though, stands out as a sly and cheeky beast feeding on scraps, stealing occasionally poultry and scavenging the fields. Jackal is a typical rubbish animal, the carrier of infection and parasite and in the Orient, it is associated with petty flattery, sycophancy and bootlicking. It is also the embodiment of cowardice and meanness. In these countries, the word‘jackal’ or the ‘son of jackal’ are gross insults. Doesn’t the description of this animal look familiar? You are right; this is a one-to-one description that matches the lifestyle and behavior of Armenians. Just like Armenians, the jackals are cowardly, base, cheeky and crafty. It unwittingly occurs to one who observes their behavior that in late 19th century that the image of Kipling’s Tabaqui was fashioned to mimic Armenians who had settled down in the Southern Caucasus only recently.284

   Ascribing certain collective qualities, such as“Armenian baseness”, “Armenian perfidy”, “Armenian thievery”, “Armenian cowardice”, “Armenians are an inferior race”, etc.
   And therefore, knowing well the Armenian treachery and perfidy, their natural penchant for betraying their friends and allies, once have been deposed from their high places, it can be warranted right now that after this December Mr. Zatulin, so accustomed to‘Armenian hospitality’, will see for himself the seamy side of the mean and petty Armenian soul. But that will happen later, and for now Konstantin Fyodorovich is a welcome guest of the Karabakh separatists.285
   However, the long absence of state-building skills of Armenians, their filthy habit of stealing culture, history and lands of their neighboring nations ultimately turned into calamities for the Armenian people itself which have walked a huge way from Balkans, Mediterranean and Asia Minor to the Caucasus. Their incapacity or unwillingness to build normal relationships with their neighbors or their perfidious treachery is the reason underlying their woes and the endless nomadic lifestyle of the Armenian ethnos.286
   Deceit, perfidy, sycophancy, cowardice, savagery, barbarism, immorality and stabbing in the back are the main symptoms of the‘Armenian disease’. Necrophilia extensively permeates the thinking of the Armenian writers who are contaminated with this disease.287
   But, my dear, I beg your pardon, here we speak about the Ukrainian people whose honor and dignity have never been doubted by anybody. And with Armenians, what honor or dignity is there to speak of? As early as in the 19th century, the great Russian poet Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin could see through the nature of Armenians and wrote in his poem Tazit the famous:“You are coward, you are slave, you are Armenian!”&lt;…&gt; However, the Armenian insolence and arrogance go quite comfortably hand in hand with their innate envy.288
   The great Bernard Shaw once said: Hatred is the coward’s revenge for being intimidated”. There is a reason for recalling this maxim; it explains most precisely the cause underlying the hatred that Armenians felt, feel and will continue to feel towards the representatives of the Jewish people. This is indeed a marked case of the coward’s revenge.It is petty, dirty and cheap, in the spirit of the global Armeniandom ideology that hands down this base sentiment from generation to generation nurturing and cherishing it.289
   How correct was the wording chosen by the president Ilham Aliyev when he labeled this stateless pack as SAVAGES! Only the gang of landless hayish290 savages291 is capable of killing children! It is not true that savages don’t have any nationality. All they do; it is the Armenian nationality!292

   Disparaging comments about Armenian women
   In Armenia, Anais was revered as the goddess of prostitution293 whose temple was reminiscent of the temple of Mylitta in Babylon. The temple was surrounded by vast fields behind high walls housing women who had devoted themselves to this goddess. Only foreigners were allowed into the place. Priests and priestesses of the temple were chosen from among male and female representatives of the most noble and aristocratic families of the country, and the term of their service to the goddess was always set by their family. After leaving the temple, the women left there all their earnings and were successfully married off, with their future husbands inquiring at the temple about their behavior. The girl that had been visited by the greatest number of foreigners was the most desired bride”, says the book. This work by Cesare Lombroso gives an insight into the origins of the Armenian code of honor.294
   Incidentally, knowing the lewdness of the Armenian fair sex and their morbid taste for the stronger sex of the Azerbaijani people, it is not hard to guess what kind of exam was held for the female applicant by her future boss.295
   Depraved and ill-mannered women can be found in any nation. However, the depravity of the Armenian women, representatives of the oldest profession, is known worldwide. In fact, I’m not the only one who says so. For instance, Vasili Velichko, a famous Russian historian, wrote: “Armenian women have always been in relationships with other nations, even if it was sometimes by force and coercion…”&lt;…&gt; The Armenian Constitution does not proscribe prostitution. Actually, the women of this nation are prostitutes, while the men are just“good-looking.296
   Another important point that Armenians didn’t notice (or chose not to notice) is that nobody asked the question why Hrachya Harutyunyan was wearing a bright-colored female dressing gown in his hospital room? Is it possible that they could not find a piece of men’s clothes? Or maybe he likes to change into ladies’ wear? But most probably, that is the national garment of Armenians. That is how their women dress up to meet the clients, while their husbands toil by the sweat of their brow in Russia, and the same gown is worn by men as they are dragged around to appear before courts…297

   Personal insults against individual ethnic Armenians, their family members, ancestors, friends and colleagues
   Unfortunately, this scumbag, the killer of Azerbaijanis and the raper of Armenian girls of Karabakh is still at large. It is amazing, but even knowing Babayan’s service record, Armenians continue to consider him a hero and celebrate the birthday of this bastard with great pomp and circumstance. It appears that his merits for banishing the Azerbaijani population of Karabakh outweigh the outraged honor of Armenian girls. Well, like nation, like its heroes. Happy Birthday, Samvel Andranikovich!298

   Insults against non-Armenians who hold a purported anti-Azerbaijani position
   We would like to touch upon an area that our country is not allowed to approach within a gunshot. Of course, you must have guessed that I refer to the foreign television or more precisely, the Russian television. And even not its portion responsible for broadcasting individual television materials, i.e. its editorial staff, where the Armenian names can be seen with the naked eye as octopus tentacles, but the television competitions, and particularly television song contests.299
   The fact is that this woman (Caroline Cox) received money from the Armenian lobby and has been constantly engaged in destructive activities for many years, without anybody in the world being able to resist it.300
   Novruz Mammadov: Various printed media have repeatedly highlighted the fact that Kazimirov who was the co-chairman of the OSCE Minsk Group in 1992–1996, is experiencing problems with reason and logic.&lt;…&gt; Why, these qualities have accompanied him since the years of his youth. However, recently, the senile dementia that hit this retired diplomat at his advanced age was joined by the political schizophrenia.&lt;…&gt; Well aware that Kazimirov would do anything for money, his Armenian accomplices, who enforce the terms of their deal, became so excited that they propagate their spoon-fed ideas across a variety of articles.&lt;…&gt; This shows, that not only Kazimirov has morbid thinking, but also those who write in his lieu according to their deal.&lt;…&gt; Exactly for 20 years now, Kazimirov has acted as a hireling of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Armenia in Russia. Such diplomats cannot understand (because of their palsied mind) that actually, they create big problems for Russia. Kazimirov is one of those guilty of the biggest catastrophes of the 20th century. At this advanced age, he may just as well take pride in his schizophrenia. He must sense to live the last days of his life. Kazimirov feels it incumbent upon him in terms of his contract to release all stench, filth and malicious intent that he has accumulated over years. He doesn’t say anything on his own. Why, he cannot speak properly and therefore, has given his consent that his Armenian friends write just anything with his reference. This old fogy who has been serving Armenians since 1992 (and who has trampled underfoot the honor and dignity of a diplomat) know no limits.&lt;…&gt; Kazimirov, in any case, you know yourself well. You know that you are very insignificant with all that malice of yours.&lt;…&gt; Actually, your life is not worth a fig301.302

   Here, we deal with a large-scale use ofhate speechdefined as a form of self-expression that includes disseminating, inciting, promoting or justifying racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other kinds of hatred based on intolerance, including intolerance in the form of aggressive nationalism or ethnocentrism, discrimination or hostility in respect of minorities, migrants or persons with emigrant background.
   Hate speechis an umbrella term generally used to include all verbal forms of expressing a pronounced negative attitude of“opponents” who have a different set of religious, national, cultural or more specific subcultural values. This phenomenon may manifest itself by taking the form of racism, xenophobia, interethnic enmity and intolerance&lt;…&gt;. Besides, in individual cases, it may amount to a lacking culture of debate.303
   Three types of hate speech can be isolated in the Azerbaijani mass media.

   Deliberate emphasizing of the protagonist’s ethnicity, Armenians surrounding him/her or suspicions to such effect
   Armenians steal everywhere, even overseas in America! Two Armenians were apprehended in the Californian city of Burbank, with one of the two being a teenager and probably following an internship in thievery from a senior colleague. And there are tens of thousands more standing in line and waiting eagerly for their move to the blessed States from the starving Armenia. So, watch out, America! Armenians are talented people, and they know how to steal.304

   A loud heading or announcement that not only fails to reflect the content of the article but also contains an obligatory insult or inappropriate statement about Armenians
   Hatred is ingrained in Armenians’ character. It is limitless;305
   Perfidious plan of the occupying forces;306
   Another mean trick of Armenians on the eve of January 20;307
   At the PACE session, Armenia had to pose as a defenseless damsel in distress;308
   Another base act of Armenians condoned by the organizers of the exhibition.309
   Juggling with statistic data, rounding off and inflating figures, scales and statistics to exacerbate the negative attitude towards Armenians

   Myth on a million of refugees
   Ilham Aliyev: The number of displaced persons keeps growing. If in 1992, their number comprised 1 million persons, now their number comprises 1 million 100 thousand or probably even reaching as much as 1 million 200 thousand persons.310
   Ilham Aliyev: It is known that as a result of the Armenian aggression, 20 percent of Azerbaijani lands were occupied, which led to over 1 million people becoming refugees and displaced persons and living in very harsh conditions: in tent camps and other places not fit for living.311
   Arif Yunusov: On February 1, 1990, the State Statistical Committee of Azerbaijan officially registered 207.5 thousands of refugees in the republic flowing into Azerbaijan from Armenia and about 48 thousand Meskhetian Turks. Later, a portion of these refugees from Armenia and Uzbekistan moved to Russia, but, at any rate, the number of refugees in Azerbaijan from Armenia and Uzbekistan always fluctuated between 210 and 230 thousand persons.&lt;…&gt; In early 1994, the government of Azerbaijan declared that the country had over 1 million refugees and displaced persons. Later, the situation in Azerbaijan became a bit more stable, and on April 1, 1998, the country’s authorities reported the registration of about 233 thousand refugees from Armenia and Uzbekistan and 611 thousand displaced persons. Thus, according to official sources, a total of 844 thousand refugees and displaced persons were registered in Azerbaijan comprising about 11 % of its population. However, according to UNHCR and IOM, the number of refugees and displaced persons in Azerbaijan comprises 782 thousand. These figures are close to the truth and are equally backed up by independent experts who believe that the number of refugees and displaced persons in Azerbaijan comprises 750 thousand or 9 % of its population.312
   It must be noted that Arif Yunusov, too, is far from the real figure overstating it only by 50 %, while the official Baku doubled it. According to Leonard Petrosyan, the interim president of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, dating back to 1997, the number of refugees and displaced persons comprised 583 thousand.313
   In 1988-89, 168 thousand Azerbaijanis left Armenia during 8-10 months following the Armenians pogroms of Sumgait and the forced banishment of over 350 thousand Armenians from the Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan. The former Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast was abandoned during the hostilities of 1991-92 by virtually its entire Azerbaijani population of 40.6 thousand persons or 21.5 percent of its total population (according to the 1989 census).
   It must be noted that Azerbaijan deliberately overstates the number of Azerbaijani population of the former Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast mentioning“60 thousand Azerbaijanis” or “one third of the population”. The Azerbaijani population of Shahumian region remained in their houses in all 4 Azerbaijani villages perched along the borders of the region in its northern and eastern parts.&lt;…&gt; According to the above Azerbaijani sources, the population of 7 regions fully or partially occupied by the Defense Army of Nagorno-Karabakh comprised 483.9 thousand persons in 1989.
   Considering that the regions of Aghdam and Fizuli have been but partially occupied, the total number of displaced persons who had to leave the said regions made approximately 420 thousand persons, of which 45 thousand returned to their homes in 1997, according to Azerbaijani sources.
   Thus, only 375 thousand persons of the total population of these 7 regions are displaced persons and refugees. So, the total number of Azerbaijani refugees and displaced persons in the Republic of Azerbaijan adds up from the above figures with refugees from Armenia (168 thousand persons, as noted above, swapped their houses and received compensation and, therefore, can be considered refugees only if we stretch the definition) and from Nagorno-Karabakh (40 thousand persons) to be factored in. Hence, the number of refugees and displaced persons moving to Azerbaijan as a result of Nagorno-Karabakh conflict comprises 583 thousands persons which amounts to 7.9 percent of the population of the Republic of Azerbaijan as declared by Azerbaijani official sources.

   Myth on the occupation of 20 percent of Azerbaijan’s territory
   Ramiz Mehdiyev: Armenia, which disregards these factors, committed an unabashed act of military aggression pulling Azerbaijan into a military conflict and occupying 20 percent of its territories.314
   In fact, during the hostilities the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army established full control over 5 regions of the Republic of Azerbaijan: Lachin– 1835 sq. km, Kalbajar – 1936 sq. km, Qubadli – 802 sq. km, Zangilan – 707 sq. km and Jebrayil – 1050 sq. km, and partially the regions of Agdam and Fizuli – approximately 30 percent (383 sq. km and 347 sq. km, respectively).&lt;…&gt; The total territory controlled by the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic equals 7059 sq. km which comprises 8 percent of the territory of the former Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan, i. e. 2.5 times less than 20 percent endlessly claimed by the leadership and representatives of Azerbaijan deliberately misleading the international community and the global public opinion.315
   It must be emphasized that even if we factor in the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast, the total area of the territories of the former Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan not controlled by Baku equals 11,309 sq. km which comprises 13.05 percent.
   S. Kara-Murza explains quite accurately the reasons for juggling the figures:“The magical power of suggestion held by the figure is such that if a person has accepted any absurd quantitative allegation, it becomes almost impossible to oust it using not only logic, but also by other quantitative arguments. Figure has the quality of sticking irreversibly in the m i nd”.316

   Shifting the focus from domestic problems to an aggressive rhetoric and outrage against Armenians
   Our children look at other houses and see that other people live well and they feel ashamed,” says Jamila, returning. Write that it is the damned Armenians who are to blame for this.317
   Encyclopedia Britannica qualifies asracistthe conviction that racial characteristics have a decisive impact on capacities, intellect, morality and behavioral patterns or traits of an individual, rather than a community or social group.
   But since we brought up the subject of culture, we won’t waste the time of our readers by describing the filth, unscrupulousness, greed, cowardice, baseness, treachery, cruelty, envy, cynicism and all the abomination that fills the inner world of Armenians.318
   The verbal aggression is considered to be good manners in today’s Azerbaijan, despite the fact that all of the above apart from contradicting the professional ethics is a violation of the Azerbaijani legislation and falls under Article 148 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Azerbaijan.319
   Article 148. Insult
   148.1. The insult, deliberate humiliation of honor and dignity of a person, expressed in the indecent form in the public statement, publicly or in mass media shown product– is punished by fine of three hundred up to one thousand of the nominal financial unit, or by public works for the term of up to two hundred forty hours, or by corrective work for the term of up to one year, or imprisonment for the term of up to six months.
   10. Dehumanization and demonization of Armenians
   The“enemy” appears as a visitant form the “antiworld”, an alien inverted space, and is portrayed as a being of “demonic” origin, knave or rogue.320
   Amrali Ismailov:Armenians are the only nation on earth whose conscience and body retained the traces of curses hundreds and thousands year old, branded forever with abominable traits.321
   Arlene Audergon in her bookThe War Hotel: Psychological Dynamics in Violent Conflict322 gives this definition of terror tactics:“Dehumanizationis a widely used tactics which consists in depicting a person or a group of persons as vermin to be destroyed”.
   “Dehumanizationis a language of threats and violence.
   It makes the human being less sensitive and more imperturbable, apathetic and indifferent; it facilitates the killing and makes it look legitimate”.
   The tactic of dehumanization subdues humanity, sensitivity, sympathy and receptivity to events.323 In this setting, people may actively pour scorn upon the dehumanized group and show willingness to commit atrocities against it.
   Thedemonization, in its turn, stokes up the society’s fear of the unknown.
   Demonization of the imageis an instrument of propaganda used to shape public opinion and create deeply ingrained stereotypes about a person, group, state ideology or a concept.
   The political dictionary defines the concept of demonization as portrayal of the subject as a being apt by its nature for immoral and antisocial behavior possessing some supernatural and sometimes magical powers to carry out its immoral role and appearing as a source of perils and troubles for others as well as inciting them to engage in an immoral conduct.324
   The demonization suggests and lays down the response to one of the eternal questions: who is to blame? In a society ruled by an elite internally bound by mutual and collective responsibility and protection, the notions of demonizing and giving somebody away have become all but synonyms.325 It significantly facilitates removing from the agenda the‘What to do?’ question and makes it possible to abdicate all responsibility for the situation at hand.
   It is common to view the demonization as a weapon of both political and ideological strife between opponents. However, there are many factors attesting to the fact that it is used to mask the real problem, a red herring to divert attention, and betrays an internal lack of confidence and fear, primarily in respect of the inner circle, whose ire needs to be channeled away elsewhere against an“alien” foe, so as to retain their loyalty.
   Seeking to apportion blame externally is typical of vulnerable groups who are not willing to face the problem and refute their personal role in causing it to happen.
   Strictly speaking, it is an instrument of creating a climate of fear where people are demonized based on a specific characteristic: ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, physical capacity, etc. Its main goal is to plant fear, breed and fuel hatred and disdain for a specific category of persons; it also seeks to convince others that those who possess a specific set of traits that embody evil must be punished.
   Demonizationis intentional and deliberate shaping of a negative image based on cultivation of myths with injections of‘real’ details (personal experience, reference to a first-hand account from a third person, description of details, indication of names, etc.).
   This practice was widely used in Nazi Germany for the development of the racial theory. In Azerbaijan, the shaping of the Armenian image has been analogous with the infamous notions on the Jewish people.
   A German children’s book dated 1936:Devil is the father of Jews. When God created the world, he created races: Indians, Negroes, Chinese, as well as vicious creatures called the Jews.326
   Azerbaijani children’s book dated 2011:&lt;…&gt; a futureless nation withа dead morality, with a mixture of rubbish and waste flowing in their veins, a spiteful and despicable nation&lt;…&gt;. This restless nation, with the satanic blood running in their veins, has committed against us countless acts of terror.327
   The recent decades spawned a panoply of writers, public and political figures, painters and journalists whose activities serve to demonize Armenians.
   Here, several reasons can be isolated for using the instrument of demonization for instilling armenophobia.
   There are several genres for demonizing Armenians:
   “Confessions of Armenians themselves”. These are letters, diaries and literary works by fictitious persons describing the“atrocities”, containing confessions and revealing mechanisms of“anti-Azerbaijani”deeds:
   Extracts from the book by Daud Heyriyan:&lt;…&gt; By the time Khachatur and I entered the basement where they kept them, our soldiers had already nailed the child’s elbows to the window frame.&lt;…&gt; Khachatur shoved into his mouth the severed breast of his dead mother. Next, I did to the 13-year-old Turk what his ancestors had done to our children. I scalped him and flayed his chest and belly. In the evening, we did the same to another three of the Turkic spawn.&lt;…&gt; On the next day, we went to church and prayed for those who fell in 1915 asking to cleanse our souls from the filth that we had seen the day before.328
   Extracts from the diary of Armen Balasanyan:One feels differently in Ejmiadzin. We made an offering of doves at the sacrificial wall. I did it for my mother too. She is afraid of doing this; she has a bad heart. She cannot watch it as doves get smashed against the wall. This is our old custom of offering sacrifice. Before, I couldn’t watch the scene myself, but later I was explained that this must be done (if you are a man329).330
   ‘Personal involvement or eyewitness account’of the episode described, with a reservation that no proof survived, and the report must be taken on trust:
   “A few hours before us, poor refugees, who were the bulk of the city’s fleeing population, had walked through this forest path. Mutilated corpses were everywhere. Here and there, you could see severed heads. I saw cut-off female breasts. A pregnant woman was ripped open, with her unborn child placed next to her and with a severed male head inserted in the gaping cavity in her belly. My mother tried to cover up my eyes, so that I, a 10-year-old girl, could not see any of it”.331
   ‘Quoting the eyewitnesses’who are not alive or who are impossible to contact, with written testimony“destroyed” by either their authors or holders:
   “I was told the story of this girl from Shushi by a soldier of the national army who received treatment in the republican hospital in Baku in 1993. He told me that once, after a successful offensive, a girl of unspeakable beauty went to meet them&lt;…&gt;.332
   “Guliyev told that a pair of innocent and harmless twin brothers had been taken hostage by Armenians. Then Armenians sent them off to Armenia, so that they could be brought up to become suicide attackers who would be sent to kill Azerbaijanis. And they said as much: “We need your children whom we will later send to war with you”. Later, we managed to ransom the twin brothers”.333
   “Only on the next day, as I went down into the basement to put there some of the belongings of our new neighbors, I noticed behind the door several Armenian books and notebooks that had fallen out.&lt;…&gt; These damped notebooks proved to be the diaries of Armen Balasanyan, a person of my age, born in 1961.&lt;…&gt; Four notebooks, each 12 pages long, had to be translated into Azerbaijani or at least Russian.&lt;…&gt;In a month’s time, we could translate only a half of one notebook.&lt;…&gt;After a while, I couldn’t find the diaries on my desk. It transpired that my grief-stricken mother tore up and discarded the notebooks. I stood there looking into her eyes and didn’t know what to say. Was there really anything to be said?”334
   The first timid steps towards disseminating the“horror stories” were made through forums and blogs. Later, they leaked into the mass media taking the form of interviews, references to named and unnamed sources, books and paintings on the ‘subject’. These stories were ultimately exported onto international platforms, the media and foreign television, while a member of the Azerbaijani parliament Ganira Pashayeva even ventured to read out extracts from a “book” by Zori Balayan presumably entitled“Revival of Our Spirit”335 from a rostrum at one of the PACE sessions.336
   A distinctive feature of all these“confessions” is that they are published exclusively in the form of extracts, hearsay and retelling the words of dead relatives or protagonists, with sources “destroyed” either by authors themselves of by thoughtless relatives of the person who held the rarity.

   Quite typical techniques are employed here:
   • common Armenian names of protagonists (Armen, Tigran, Khachatur);
   • detailed depiction of the “atrocities” (torture of newborns, abuse, contributions to a clandestine subversive committee“Krunk”);
   • absence or very blurred depiction of small details, such as: weather, mood, events preceding the described episode not related to the “atrocity” itself that necessarily accompany any narration;
   • invariable presence of children, young girls or old people in the episode;
   • indication of unconfirmed details about the author or edition; representing fictitious addresses, non-existent publishing houses or localities (Daud Mansur Heyriyan, born in 1942 in Beirut, ethnic Armenian, resides in Beirut, in the Armenian district, house 43, apartment 25, block 1, on the second floor337; publishing house‘Vanadzor’338);
   • attempts to use in the text Armenian place names or brands, albeit, with mistakes: Jemruk, Javakkh, Haestan.339

   A few excerpts from this non-existent“book” are constantly quoted in the Azerbaijani mass media as a proof of “atrocities perpetrated by Armenians”. However, neither the original book, nor its full contents or even the full contents of the quoted pages has ever been presented anywhere. The same applies to the fictitious book by Daud Heyriyan (Heyryan) entitled ‘In the Name of the Cross’.
   In 2012, theXenophobia Prevention InitiativeNGO officially announced its intention to purchase the books‘Resurrection of Our Soul’ and ‘In the Name of the Cross’.340 In the 6-months’ period following the announcement, the proposal remained unanswered.
   As a rule, the plot of the“horror stories” follows the same pattern: ritualistic and vindictive blood thirst and inhuman cruelty which spring from the upbringing and negative sentiments intrinsic to Armenians.
   “All Armenians make contributions to a certain fund”to finance action against Azerbaijan”. The name of the fund varies depending on the storyteller, the general fabric of the narration or the goal at hand. It may be “Krunk”, “Ejmiadzin” or “Dashnaks”.
   “Armenians entombed Azerbaijani children in welded tubes”.The place of the tube, its form, eyewitness accounts of retrieving the bodies or welding the tube as well as the number of children vary depending on the author, edition, etc.

   Locality:
   Gugark (Lori Province, Armenia);341
   Spitak (Lori Province, Armenia);
   Leninakan (Shirak Province, Armenia);
   Kapan (Syunik Province, Armenia), Karabakh.342

   The tube:
   chimney;343
   a tube 20 meters long, with a diameter of 1.5 meters;344
   a tube 6 meters long, with Azerbaijani children aged between 3 and 10 entombed inside.345

   The number of entombed children:
   70 children aged 5-12;346
   23 bodies found entombed alive in a chimney;347
   80 Azerbaijani children were entombed in a tube and set ablaze;348
   71 corpses of Azerbaijani children;349
   15 Azerbaijani children.350

   Discovered by:
   a French rescue team;
   Medina Sharifova, the mother of one of the children;
   an Azerbaijani doctor;
   French dogs.

   It must be noted here that the reference is made to a single tube. No Azerbaijani source or official makes reference to more than one tube assuming that they existed in several places at the same time.
   The mythology of“children welded shut in a tube” is a subtly schemed and potent device. It shakes the foundations of the human self-consciousness, morality, instincts and worldview. The image of suffering children gives people such a dreadful shock that they stop thinking reasonably on the assumption that “such things cannot be invented”. Facts, logic or proofs are no longer needed as the goal is achieved.
   “Of course, the world has an unwritten law of double standards, and we regularly face this tendency. Why the international organizations, which routinely issue statements on violations of human rights in Azerbaijan, have not in all these years made any statement on the Azerbaijani children entombed alive in welded tubes and ruthlessly slain by Armenians? Personally, I have not come across any such statements”, said Vusala Huseynli, Country Manager of World Youth Bank Network.351
   “Armenians tortured Azerbaijanis”.The sophisticated brutality and variety of tortures is shocking.

   Tortures352
   Shoes made of umbilical skin:Armenians removed the skin of captive Azerbaijanis and even invented a special device for this process.
   The right eye goes first: Armenians first put out the right eye of a captive Azerbaijani man.&lt;…&gt; To start with, they thrust a red-hot piece of wire into the right eye or plucked it out with a knife.
   Torture with vipers:First Zhora dropped the captive, with his hands and feet tied, into a pit swarming with snakes whose fangs had been pulled out. After seeing enough of this, Zhora would let in fully-fanged snakes to attack the captive.
   Tortures using horseshoes, nails, knives and axes:They killed hundreds of thousands Azerbaijani citizens using this torture. In their workshops, Armenian blacksmiths made many horseshoes and nails for the sons of Azerbaijan. Tortures of Azerbaijanis by Armenians using axes were even more appalling. Great number of bodies was found hacked into pieces like firewood. They plunged and twisted knives into the flesh of Azerbaijanis.
   Tortures using salt:&lt;…&gt; Many of the dead had their eye sockets filled with salt. Many were flayed, with their raw flesh salted.&lt;…&gt; Large amounts of salted water were injected into their intestines.
   Tortures using a pair of tongs:&lt;…&gt; they tore the lips of Azerbaijanis into a bloody mess and pulled out their golden tooth crowns. There were also many cases when chunks of the living flesh were torn out with a pair of tongs.&lt;…&gt; They say that an Armenian who had lost his eye during the war was transplanted the eye of a good-looking Azerbaijani man.
   A book entitled Hale has a story named“The Gorge of Abandoned Stones” giving the following blood-curdling account:They had no mercy not only for women, old people and children, but did not spare disabled and mentally ill persons who had been confined to their beds for years. Good-natured and peaceful Gheychi Turks who held nothing in their arms except for saz, fell victims to armed to the teeth Dashnaks. A famous musician, ashugh Najaf, suffered special tortures at the hands of Dashnaks: they attached a boiling samovar to his chest and made him walk around the villages until his flesh was scalded through from the hot steam.353
   Later, this scene was perpetuated by an Azerbaijani artist Vagif Ujatay.
   A one-man exhibitionnamed‘Behold, See and Don’t Forget!’ by the artist Vagif Ujatay was held in Baku and was dedicated to the “deeds of Armenian fascists”. “&lt;…&gt; In 1992, the Armenian fascists in the village of Baganis Ayrum of Ghazakh region skewered a 2-month-old infant on a ramrod and after roasting the body, offered the mother to eat it”.&lt;…&gt; The pinnacle of the exhibition was another work depicting another“appalling atrocity perpetrated by Armenians”: “In 1988, in the Armenian region of Gugark, the Armenian beasts filled tubes with 80 children. As they did so, 79 of them were still alive, and the 80th, who wouldn’t fit inside was torn into pieces. This enormity was later unveiled by foreigners; the bodies were found by specially trained French dogs. Ever since Armenians unleashed this nightmare, such works have become the core of my artistic activity,” said the artist.354

   “Armenians infect, eat and torture Azerbaijanis”
   “Cannibal Karine”&lt;…&gt; They brought this woman named Karine to the prison of Shushi where they kept the Azerbaijani prisoners of war.&lt;…&gt; She was a cannibal; she liked to eat human flesh, quite often the living flesh. She yanked chunks of flesh from bone with her teeth chewing, swallowing and feasting on human blood. They brought her to the prison where she visually chose her“living foodstuff”.&lt;…&gt;355
   “HIV-positive Anzhela Petrosyan in Baku”&lt;…&gt; Armenia is now waging neither cold, nor information, but a biological war.&lt;…&gt; Angela Petrosyan contracted AIDS&lt;…&gt;. She started deliberately infecting Azerbaijani residents of Baku with AIDS. She received her instructions and acted strictly according to the plan…356
   “Armenians are behind female sterility across CIS countries”The so-called“Armenian vaccine”, Gardasil and Cervarix, developed by an Armenian physician in the United States, has been freely imported and distributed at no charge since 2009 in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and in other CIS countries.357

   “Armenians organize terrorist acts”.Fortunately, sometimes the Azerbaijanis themselves reveal disinformation and refute it.
   Armenian trail in the terror act at the State Oil Academy of Baku on April 30, 2009.The indictment handed down by A. Yusifov said that the person who masterminded the mass shooting in the Oil Academy was Martin Grigoryevich Gumashyan, born in 1951, who lives with his spouse and sons in the village of Shulaver of Marneuli District of Georgia. M. Gumashyan and his sons are engaged in baking bread in the bakery built in the courtyard of their own house. The document also notes that in January-March 2009, Gumashyan entered into a criminal conspiracy with a resident of Dashtepe village of Marneuli District Farda Asad oglu Gadirov, his relative from the village of Shulaver Javidan Farman oglu Amirov and residents of Dashtepe village Najaf Novruz oglu Suleymanov, Nadir Shirkhan oglu Aliyev and other citizens, whose identity has not been established yet by the investigation, agreed to commit a terrorist act in the city of Baku against Azerbaijanis out of ethnic hatred. He promised to allot a sum of 50 thousand USD for the organization and execution of this crime and gave Farda Gadirov the initial sum of 5 thousand USD, with the outstanding sum to be paid after the terrorist act would be committed.358
   The correspondent of the Azerbaijani newspaper Yeni Musavat traveled to the village of Shulaver and without any help from Interpol found the Armenian Gumashyan in the courtyard of his own house and recorded an interview with him that upset the course of the trial on the shooting of students at the State Oil Academy of Azerbaijan.359
   It transpired that Martun Gumashyan was not even acquainted with Farda Gadirov who was the perpetrator of the bloodbath at the Oil Academy. Moreover, as soon as Gumashyan found out that the authorities of Azerbaijan declared him a“terrorist”, he turned to the Georgian General Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where he was told that the Azerbaijani side had taken no action to seek his arrest.360
   The newspaper Zerkalo turned to the law enforcement authorities of Azerbaijan for clarification of the situation at hand.“We have turned to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia. The Ministry’s officer on duty, Dmitri Botsulava stated to our correspondent that the Ministry received no motions concerning Martun Gumashyan. This means that the statements made by Gumashyan were truthful”, writes Zerkalo.361
   “We have also turned to the Azerbaijani Office of Interpol as it was the organization which, according to the statement of the General Prosecutor’s Office, handled the search for Martun Gumashyan. We decided to inquire about the progress of a search for a person who had never thought of going into hiding and continued to live in his own house. The officer on duty, Hasanov suggested that we leave our telephone number, but the senior officials of Interpol never called back. Then, we called again. The organization’s officer suggested that we turned with our questions to the press service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We did as suggested. The officer of the Ministry’s press service, Ehsan Zahidov, stated to Zerkalo that he had no information concerning the search for Martun Gumashyan”, continues the newspaper.
   “We have also turned to the General Prosecutor’s Office of Azerbaijan. The head of its press-service stated that necessary actions would be taken to arrest Martun Gumashyan in the future! He also noted that the law-enforcement authorities of Azerbaijan would establish the identities of all involved in the tragedy and would call them to account”.
   Interestingly, after a while, the columnist of the newspaperYeni Musavat, Tofig Yagublu, who had prepared the sensational report was arrested on trumped-up charges.362
   Shockingis one of the centerpieces in demonizing an image. This method has been widely employed in shaping the image of an Armenian in documentary materials, social and political discourse, art and propaganda of today’s Azerbaijan.
   A generation of children has grown up in Azerbaijan who have never seen Armenians, but form their judgment on hearsay. Targeting this group is the easiest task as there is no need to shatter the existing stereotypes based on knowledge, personal familiarity or own views. They not only fail to challenge such information, but re-circulate it reinforced with claims of personal involvement or somebody they know well.

   A dialog between two young Azerbaijanis on a forum:
   – Although our parents lived and were friends with them, they conspired against us behind our backs just the same.&lt;…&gt; Even if they do music, they can teach their Armenian ideology.
   – And not only ideology. You might have seen it on the TV; one Armenian woman, who was a midwife in a maternity hospital, squeezed the testicles of new-born boys long before the Armenian-Azerbaijani events.363
   11. Anti-Armenian paranoia
   Paranoiais a variety of a thinking disorder. People who suffer from paranoia have exasperated distrust of people around them, susceptibility to offense, suspiciousness, jealousy, tendency to see conspiring ill-wishers in random occurrences, inability to forget and forgive grievances or to handle criticism. They may conceive obsessive ideas leading a paranoid person to develop intricate and logically coherent conspiracy theories against him/her.
   Individual incidents of paranoia are easily diagnosed, as the paranoid person is surrounded by people with healthy perception of the reality.
   Collective paranoia is quite a different matter. Even the clear-headed, if any, must feign to share the collective delusion. In rare cases, they attempt to stand up for their cognizance of the reality and become targets to persecution and ostracism from those around them.
   Apart from this, Azerbaijan relentlessly bans any positive mention or depiction of Armenians, with domestic information space bursting with pieces of information which, as we have seen above, are not only far from the reality, but are both fantastic and inconceivable. Any negative occurrence– from natural phenomena to socio-economic problems – are attributed to the insidious hand of Armenians or envious evil-wishers sponsored by Armenians.
   Frequently, such paranoia takes preposterous forms. In this sense, any goods made in Armenia or by ethnic Armenians get a special treatment and are prohibited. A huge hullabaloo is raised over any commodity accidentally landing on the shelves of Azerbaijani shops.
   At the outset of this strife, before the alleged reasons and motives became attuned to the ideology and logic, the most absurd reasons were brought up to justify the ban and destruction of any such merchandise. For example, this was the case with the Armenian brandy and coffee which were seized and destroyed.
   The Azerbaijani website Azeritоdаy.соm:The State Customs Committee of Azerbaijan, in the framework of its No Smuggling campaign, discovered in the distribution network of Baku expired coffee and brandy produced in Armenia. The goods so discovered were destroyed in the presence of journalists. As reported by Aziz Majidov, Sector Head of State Customs Committee, the expert appraisal declared the destroyed merchandise unfit for use.364
   Later, after bringing the set of categories into alignment with the official propaganda to furnish more or less logical rationale, the presence of the Armenian merchandise came to be portrayed as a manifestation of terrorism deliberately targeting the population of Azerbaijan. It must be noted that frequently, such information is either not true or intentionally distorted to further aggravate the situation.
   The Azerbaijani website Bia.az:“In Azerbaijan, law enforcement authorities started a verification procedure in respect of a pediatrician who had advised his patients to use Nutrilаc infant formula365 produced by the Russian company Nitritek; the doctor faces a sentence of up to 8 years for advertising these products, since the company belonged to Armenians. Unquestionably, the purity of the foodstuffs for our children produced by Armenians cannot but be doubted. A serious expert appraisal is needed”, writes the website.366
   All merchandise doubtful or harmful for the consumer is scrutinized in the first place to establish the“ethnic composition of supplier’s management”. The range of wares was further extended to include any mention of similarity or suspected Armenian origin of the goods, going as far as to cover the regional language labeling.
   The Azerbaijani website Gunxeber.соm: In Baku, ladies’ knitted jackets of Turkish production and of colors reminiscent of the Armenian flag have been withdrawn from sale. “In the beginning, sellers did not understand what the problem was, but were shocked as they did and realized the blunder they had committed. The sellers took away all jackets and promised to send them back to wholesalers who had imported the wares from Turkey,” writes Gunxeber.соm website.367
   The Azerbaijani website Bizim Yol: The second floor of the newly constructed Bina shopping center in Baku, houses a ladies’ wear shop where all clothing is of Armenian brand “Artsakh”368. Eyyub Huseynov, Chairman of the Free Consumers Union of Azerbaijan, stated in an interview to the newspaper that although the State Service for Consumer Market Control under the Ministry of Economic Development had previously identified and removed from the market Armenian mineral water, cigarettes and coffee, today, this service does not control the market for unknown reasons.369
   The Azerbaijani website Haqqin.azpublished a photograph of a menu in Traveler’s Coffee, a fashionable restaurant in Baku. The photo showed Armenian lavash indicated as an ingredient of one of the dishes. Siraj Piriyev, Traveler’s Coffee corporate lawyer, found the author of the photograph, social journalist Azer Aydemir, and addressed to him several strident letters with threats of litigation and trouble. “In so doing, the lawyer S. Piriyev acknowledged the presence of the Armenian lavash in the restaurant and hurried to point out for some reason that the owners of Traveler’s Coffee have already corrected this small (?!) mistake by replacing the word “Armenian” with “Azerbaijani,” reports the website.370
   The Azerbaijani newspaper Yeni Musavat:The Deniz supermarket of Baku sells Indian tea that has some labeling in Armenian. The production and packaging of the tea is commissioned by a Russian company Dialogtorg and takes place in Sri Lanka. The press secretary of State Committee on Standardization, Metrology and Patents of Azerbaijan, Fazil Talibli reported that the sale of merchandise with labeling in the Armenian language is prohibited in Azerbaijan.“Recently, dried fruits labeled Sevan in Armenian were discovered on sale in the Masally District. The shop was fined by the Committee, and the wares were seized and withdrawn from sale”, said Talibli and noted that goods featuring a label in Armenian and the Armenian flag are prohibited in Azerbaijan.371
   The Azerbaijani website Gundelik-bаku.соmwrites that the colors of the Armenian flag can recently be seen in the appearance of food and trade outlets on the streets of Baku and regions of Azerbaijan. Thus, the website gives the example of the gas station located on the square near the former bus station in the 3rd residential community of Baku that was painted after renovation in colors of the Armenian flag.“Before, the gas station was only painted in dark blue, but now orange colors have been added”, reports the website indignantly. In addition, the website discerned a link to Armenia in the name of the gas station H-Petrol by noting that there are gas stations in Armenia with this name deciphered as “Hаyаstаn-Petrоl”372.373
   The Azerbaijani websiteАра. az: Import of spirits and tobacco goods prevented to AzerbaijanBrandy, vodka, cigarettes and coffee were discovered to contain substances harmful for the human body&lt;…&gt;. The import of Armenia-produced brandy, vodka, cigarettes and coffee was prevented to Azerbaijan. This report was received by APA from the State Customs Committee. Laboratory research carried out with modern equipment at the Central Customs Examination Department of the State Customs Committee revealed that the products were made with breaches of manufacturing techniques and were unfit for use. Harmful substances were identified in these products. The State Customs Committee reiterates its warning that the import of such commodities is inadmissible and will be vigorously deterred.374
   The tendency of barring entry for any literature published in Armenia, irrespective of its content, holds a special place.
   Azerbaijani customs officers seized from the director of the regional representative office of the Institute for War and Peace Reporting, journalist Shahin Rzayev a book by an Armenian author Tatul Hakobyan entitled“Karabakh Diary: Green and Black”.
   &lt;…&gt;“This occurred yesterday at the customs checkpoint of Boyuk-Kesik as Rzayev returned from Georgia, from an Internews event where he had purchased the book. The customs officials seized the book under the pretext that it “was published in Armenia” and made an entry to this effect in their report.
   “I asked them: “Had I brought a copy of ‘Eugene Onegin’ published in Armenia, would you have seized it, too? I was given the answer: “Yes”, told Rzayev”.375
   The underlying reasons for such line of conduct are quite explicable. Feelings of tolerance and sympathy are in the first place based on knowledge and sufficient information on the subject. The presence of production is an indication of a demiurgic core, and if the commodity is of quality into the bargain, this is bound to develop some sort of a liking or at least a positive attitude to the manufacturing country or nation. For instance, high-quality machinery and equipment from Germany, French perfumes or Chinese silks impact to some extent the country’s recognizability and perception of its citizens in a positive light. The availability of Armenian wares on the shelves of Azerbaijani shops is detrimental to the propagandized image of a hungry and decaying country that is far from any constructive endeavor and void of any capacity for production.
   This is the reason for waging a war on Armenian goods and their subsequent destruction for show. To explain the underlying reasons to their consumers, a myth of“food and goods terrorism” is concocted as it is best taken up by the masses, with its potential of affecting everyone. The real purpose behind this clamor in news reports is not an attempt to protect the population from food or goods terrorism. Here, a series of other objectives are pursued:
   • preventing the recognizability and emergence of the image of creative Armenians;
   • barring the potential dissemination of alternative sources of information;
   • intimidating population and whipping up armenophobia as it instills fear and distrust and results in a hatred which can be later exploited by the authorities to advance their agenda;
   • producing a conspiracy theory to consolidate the society in the face of a common enemy.

   The subversive role of Armenians purported to account for the existence of social problems in Azerbaijan links not only to the issue of Karabakh but is traced back further into history:“Armenians used to spend a lifetime hatching out nefarious schemes to destroy Azeri Turks and did harm even in the happy Soviet times”.
   It appears that goods manufactured in the Soviet period carried a far-reaching agenda of causing harm many years later.
   The Azerbaijani website Vesti.az:The point is that from the mid-1960s, our republic saw the beginning of the mass construction of 9-storey residential panel buildings and a series of frame stone housing. The USSR Gossnab (State Supplies of the USSR) supplied the Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan with passenger elevators produced by… a plant in Spitak. As early as in 1960s, far-sighted Armenians of Spitak knew that the outbreak of a bloody war between the two peoples over Nagorno-Karabakh was near and were out to cause mischief. The consignment of elevators manufactured for the Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan had deliberatelyinduced manufacturing defects. That is why the residents of the capital city who live in 9-storey panel residential blocks to this day continue to be plagued by these elevators. And we, in our ingratitude, put the blame for this on the management of the elevator maintenance services and public utilities of our capital city.376
   Insights into history with a cryptographic slant toward conspiracy theory deserve a special highlight.
   Azerbaijan has seen a litany of figures who seek to find reasons explaining the overt and covert Armenian perfidy stemming from some innate traits attributed to ethnic Armenians. Attempts to produce evidence in support of above-stated qualities ascribed to all Armenians without exception took the course of unveiling conspiracy theories, cyphers as well as an occult impact on Azerbaijanis.
   Newspaper Vyshka (Watchtower)№ 20 (19664) dated 06.1.2007:It would have never occurred to any Azerbaijani who consumed back in 1981 Polyus ice cream produced by the Refrigerator Plant of Baku that it represented a direct reference to Armenian organizations– Artsakh, Dashnaktsutyun, Gnchak, Krunk, ASALA and Miatsum – and that Armenians exchanged information using the products of this very plant.&lt;…&gt; The wrapping paper of the ice cream features 4 colors. The symbols inside and outside the outline of the figure 8 can be deciphered as follows. The blue outline of a shark inside the figure 8–&lt;…&gt; and the figure itself betokens a plan to seize 8 regions of Nagorno-Karabakh (Shusha, Lachin, Kelbajar, Qubadli, Zangilan, Jabrayil, Fizuli and Agdam) in addition to Agdere, Khojaly and Khojavend.&lt;…&gt; While brown colors joining the band on both ends is none other than firmly anchored boots of the Russian soldiers who help Armenians in seizing the Azerbaijani lands as far as the Iranian border.377
   A. Aliyev, Azerbaijani psychologist, affirms that the people of Azerbaijan turn into a society of schizophrenics, with 80 percent of the country’s population facing serious mental problems. Schizophrenia and dementia are the main threats to Azerbaijan. According to the psychologist, the scale of these ailments shows a total incidence, and the society is facing the risk of undergoing genetic mutation. Apart from this, the number of persons suffering from a depression and various neurotic disorders has spiked amid an ever growing rate of divorces, childless marriages and suicides. Also, the society is simply overflowing with aggression.378
   The causality of the ongoing social destruction is identified through the string of concepts Armenians– Azerbaijanis – separatism – occupation and is based on the juxtaposition of the presumed characteristics of both groups.
   Apart from the“food terrorism”, against which the authorities of Azerbaijan are waging an unequal fight, some representatives of the intellectual community have exposed a “genetic terror” unleashed by Armenians in as early as 1950s. Specifically, Shohrat Eldaniz, the editor-in-chief ofYeni Yekenchinewspaper and at the same time the editor-in-chief of the Internet television channelKаnаlm5.tvconfirmed the prevalence of disruptive social phenomena and after giving the matter a lengthy thought, came to the conclusion that the blame for this lies with Armenians who had mounted a campaign of“genetic terror” against the people of Azerbaijan. To put it otherwise, Armenians have used some pharmaceutical compound to corrupt the gene of the Azerbaijanis who had presumably possessed qualities listed above.
   Shohrat Eldaniz, editor-in-chief ofYeni Yekenchinewspaper, chief editor ofKаnаl5. tv:What do you think is going on? Why the seed of our people decays and breaks down? Why there is an increasing level of cruelty, indifference and insensibility? I have reflected a lot examining and studying numerous articles and researches. Apart from a single consideration, nothing sensible came to my mind. There is information that the human body contains codes for over 400 healthy genes. Such concepts as‘homeland’, ‘love for your land’, ‘moral integrity’, ‘consciousness’ linked to ethnic roots as well as ‘morality’, ‘honor’, ‘kindness’, ‘courage’, ‘heroism’, ‘bravery’, ‘selflessness’, etc. are governed by these genetic codes.
   As early as in 1951, in Moscow under Mikoyan’s wing, Professor Edik Sardaryan, the head of Armenian scientists379 voiced at a meeting presided by him“an apprehension over the gene pool of the Azerbaijani nation” and confessed that “if this gene pool continues to develop any further, there will be a risk of Azerbaijanis turning into a dominant force in the Caucasus”. This is how the activities of Armenian scientists aimed at damaging andcorrupting the healthy genetic code of Azerbaijanis started in Kremlin.
   To cause the corruption, mutation and destruction of the genetic code, Armenian scientists, joined by their Russian colleagues, invented“Mersin-N” pharmaceutical compound. According to the information available on this compound, it would be used to implement a program of genetic terror against nations possessing healthy genetic codes. This program continues to be implemented to this day.380
   It is pointless to speak in earnest and try to refute the existence of any such compound or its use by the Azerbaijanis for that matter; however, the Azerbaijani society harbors a genuine conviction that Armenians are carrying out a deliberate subversive policy against if not the genes than at least individual representatives of the Azerbaijani people.
   Often, people who are not only far from morality but are poorly versed in school taught disciplines hurry to make a display of their patriotism and grab their share of glory.
   Extract from an interview by a famous Azerbaijani actress, Shukyufa Musayeva who tells the story of her involvement in the fighting over Karabakh:I was wounded in the blink of an eye. We were waging a battle, and two of our askers381 burnt down to death. Later, I was told that I, profusely bleeding, screamed:“Commander, don’t let the boys burn to death!” As I passed out, I slipped into a clinical death. I was taken to Baku in a helicopter to the Semashko hospital. I was hurt beyond recognition; fragments were all over my body and especially on my face. They stitched together a wound on my forehead, but it would not heal. As I was already going through the recovery period, a doctor tried to pull out my frontal bone using a pair of tongs. I didn’t feel anything, I only saw another doctor enter the room, give him a slap in the face and take him away with words: “What is it? Do you want to make her miserable?”
   It is only now that I realize that this doctor either did somebody’s bidding or was Armenian. Later, I read that the human memory is contained in the frontal bone382. I don’t know the reason, but this Armenian doctor in his attempt to pull out my frontal bone wanted to erase and remove my memory.383
   Occult practices hold a special place in unmasking the subversive role of Armenians. Parapsychologists and psychics have joined the fight against the pernicious Armenian influence and claim in dead earnest that“Armenia is launching hostile magical assaults against Azerbaijan through releasing energy waves to induce depression, aggression, despondency, vindictiveness, etc”.
   From an interview given to Bizim Yol by a phytotherapist and parapsychologist Tunzala Bayramova:“Azerbaijan is in a state of war with Armenia, and the war is waged not only using weaponry, but also over various other channels. For instance, those who have lost their homes are aggressive, with problems rising between them and the locals because of their inability to find common ground; contradictions also rise between rural and urban populations. All of it bears the impact of our enemy’s magic manipulations. On the other hand, I am more concerned with the lack of love in our society. People feel a void that becomes filled with mercenariness, greed and avidity intrinsic to the period of transition”, stated T. Bayramova.
   The parapsychologist assures that Armenia is mounting alleged magical assaults against Azerbaijan through releasing energy waves which induce heavy depression, aggression, despondency, vindictiveness, etc.“There, sorcerers comprise 20 % of their population. Each country has its own political laboratories and scientific centers studying magic, parapsychology and extrasensory powers; these centers do the bidding of the country’s leadership. Regretfully, Azerbaijan is an exception and becomes target of such attacks”, assures the phytotherapist and parapsychologist.384
   Judging by the publications appearing in the Azerbaijani press, Azerbaijanis are quite superstitious and fervently believe in psychics, witches and sorcerers. The sector of occult services in Azerbaijan accounts for an approximate turnover of 200 million manats.385 With this in mind, there can be no doubts that the parapsychologists’ message is surely to drive home and be blindly accepted and added to the armory.
   The Azerbaijani website Vesti.az: An unknown person called the 112 service of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Azerbaijan and reported that Armenians had attached a bomb to his back.386
   A significant share in the theory of conspiracy and subversive action goes to claims of a“classic” terror at the hands of Armenians (kidnapping, terror acts, etc.). It must be noted that Azerbaijan has publicly announced that “in connection with threats from ASALA terrorist organization” all itineraries of Azerbaijani officials will be kept secret.387 However, after a while, the publication of information on the movements of officials resumed.388
   The hand of Armenians, represented by a phantom Armenian named Maukamyan, was unveiled in nothing short of orchestrating the collapse of the Soviet Union as well as a“series of terrorist acts”, including the Black January389.
   Extract from an interview with Anatoly Fedorenko, the author of the book Black January who lives in Ukraine and is an eyewitness of the bloody events of January 1990 in Baku:With my hand on Quran, I swore an oath by Allah to politically revenge the terrorists whatever it took. In a short while, we will be mounting an action against Gorbachev. My comrades are conducting an investigation that has preliminarily revealed that Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev was recruited in 1979 by Maukamyan, a resident agent of Armenian origin of the American special services. It was him who coaxed Gorbachev into further collaboration. Gorbachev was given an instruction on how to cause the collapse of the Soviet Union in disguise of the Perestroika; in fact, he was perpetrating a series of terrorist acts against the ordinary and peaceful people. In 1990, Azerbaijan saw events that later came to be called as Black January.390
   The figures of the Azerbaijani establishment can be diagnosed with a clear case of cause and effect disruption. Fully aware of grave domestic problems faced by their country, they are concerned with finding out if such problems were brought about by an Armenian or the fact that Armenians might learn and spread the word of their problems.
   In his statement delivered on theSolidarity for Karabakhforum held in Baku, the journalist Azer Hasrat exhorted his colleagues to stop their criticism of the authorities and their report of Azerbaijan’s domestic problems as Armenian specialists were reading and re-circulating that information.
   I have started my speech with a phrase:“Watch out! We’re being overheard. After that, I said that statements pronounced in this room and appearing in the Azerbaijani press are very closely followed in Armenia. Armenians draw from our newspapers all negative opinions about our army or country, translate and disseminate them across the world because this serves their interests. Therefore, we must be careful in our statements. Such meetings cannot be used to air grievances in respect of high-ranking officials and the president”, reports the Azerbaijani journalist.391
   Attempts to explain Azerbaijan’s ongoing destructive processes by external forces are quite clear. Here, a protective mechanism is activated representing an instinctive process intended to minimize negative experiences. The existence of the problem itself is already a source of such experiences, while realizing own guilt and the onus it carries represent a factor that multiplies negative sentiments and exacerbates the oppressed minds.
   12. Ramil Safarov vs. Akram Aylisli: avatars of good and evil
   The philosophical categories of the good and evil and the quest for choosing between them represent the basis of the human civilization. These categories rest on the essence of the humanity at large and individuals in particular.
   Good is the central category of any moral system.
   The goodis the supreme moral value, and to do good is the main regulating force of a moral line of conduct.
   The evilrepresents the antithesis of the good. It is the anti-value, i.e. something incompatible with the moral line of conduct.
   Good is the goal that must be attained, cultivated and created. The evil, in its turn, is something that one ought to dissociate oneself from.
   The good and evil do not stand on equivalent footing. The evil issecondaryto the good; it is only thereverse sideof the good, a deviation from it. It is for a reason that the God (good) in Christianity and Islam is omnipotent, while the devil (evil) is solely capable of abetting the violation of God’s commandments by some individuals.392
   Not only deeds can be attributable to the category of the evil. The evil can be used to describe the character of various objects and phenomena which elicit negative sentiments of taste, smell, pain, bad experience and state. The good represents the goal that must be attained, cultivated and created. The evil is something that one ought to dissociate oneself from, refute, neutralize and overcome. A. Voloshina, in her drawing of a borderline between the good and the evil, wrote:“The good along with pleasure, beauty, truth and benefit represents the main component of the welfare, i.e. an absolute goal that cannot serve as a means to achieve any other end, while the evil encompasses suffering, lie, harm, deformity and immorality”.393 Spinoza analyzed the traditional ethical categories of good and evil in correlation with the concepts of pleasure and pain. Thus, the good, inasmuch as it represents benefit and use, is perceived positively (pleasure), while the evil, inasmuch as it inflicts damage and is of no use, is appraised negatively (pain).394
   Awareness of the essence of good and evil, understanding the extent of their antagonism and the ability to differentiate between them underlie the public morals manifested throughmoral judgments.
   Moral judgmentsare judgment (statements) which express the moral appraisal or norm or prescription.395
   Themoral appraisalrepresents a set of structured judgments and significant priorities based on the internal needs of the society developed through tradition, culture and code of conduct. Values are perceived and appraised as moral good within the confines of established rules and traditions.
   After series of studies, the philosopher Joshua Knobe396 revealed the dependence between moral judgments and the perceptions of the world. The Azerbaijani society provides a sufficiently illustrative example of this statement, with its shaping of quite specific moral judgments and the surrounding world viewed through the prism of Armenia and Armenians. This gives rise to a distinctiveKnobe effect397:
   An Azerbaijani who ran over a pedestrian is bad and guilty, but if the pedestrian turns out to be Armenian, then the Azerbaijani is not guilty and did a right thing by running over this pedestrian.
   An Azerbaijani killed a man; he is a criminal, but if it turns out that his victim is Armenian, then he is a hero and did a right thing by killing the man. An Azerbaijani stole something; he is a thief and criminal, but if the victim turns out to be Armenian, then he did a right thing as the Armenian deserves it. An Azerbaijani girl gets married amid wishes of happiness and joy, but if it turns out that the groom is Armenian, then she is a reprobate and apostate who deserves punishment.
   The moral evil is defined in contrast to the moral judgment and moral appraisal as going beyond socially established value benchmarks and the breakdown of rooted public morals. Each society shapes its own perception of the good and evil in line with its traditions and set of values. At the junction of good and evil with slight shifts to either side, an extensive field of action opens up for ideology and propaganda. A universal technique employed by the propaganda of all countries consists in a clear delimitation between the world of good implied to include the world of the subject and the world of evil encompassing the object. The denigration of the latter occurs through comparison with animals, spawn of hell or subhumans depending on the world view.
   “Our duty is to foment hatred for evil and invigorate the thirst for beautiful, kind and just things”. The author of these words is Adolf Hitler.
   Similar notions of good and evil are cultivated in the society of today’s Azerbaijan where the evil is represented by Armenians, and the good is represented by those who wage a struggle against them “by all available means”. This phenomenon is showcased by Ramil Safarov, a personification of the “good”, who hacked a sleeping Armenian officer with an axe,398 and Akram Aylisli, a personification of the“evil”. In his novel entitledThe Stone Dreams, the author draws parallels between the massacre of Armenians in Nakhichevan in early 20th century and the pogroms of Armenians in Baku of the late 20th century through the prism of his own feelings.
 [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
 [Картинка: i_003.jpg] 
 [Картинка: i_004.jpg] 

   351. «İnşallah, Azərbaycanda görüşərik!!! -Qənirə Paşayevadan Ramil Səfərova təbrik. Modern.az. 25.08.2011. http://modern.az/articles/16595/1/ (az)
   352.«Зеркало», 28.02.2004, newspaper, (rus)
   353. Ibid
   354. Ramil Səfərova Milli Qəhraman adı verilsin. Zaur-Aliyev.info. 16.12.2011 г. http://zaur-aliyev.info/?p=269 the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/982db60a (az)
   355.ООК предложила присвоить медаль «За отвагу» Рамилю Сафарову. Day.az. 22.02.2005. http://news.day.az/politics/20906.html (rus)
   356.Акиф Наги: «Азербайджан способен освободить Карабах так же, как освободил Рамиля Сафарова». Salamnews.org. 31.08.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/162037/akif-nagi-azerbaydan-sposoben-osvobodit-karabax-tak-je-kak-osvobodil-ramilya-safarovanbspnbsp/. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/3fd152bf (rus)
   357.Байрам Сафаров: «Армяне должны понять, что освобождение Рамиля Сафарова – очередная победа Азербайджана». АПА. 31.08.2012. http://ru.apa.az/news/230232 (rus)
   358.Указ президента страны о помиловании Рамиля Сафарова достоин наивысших похвал – представитель Минобороны. Salamnews. 31.08.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/162054/ukaz-prezidenta-strani-o-pomilovanii-ramilya-safarovanbspdostoin-naivisshix-poxval-ndash-predstavitel-minoboroninbspnbsp, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/b0c082dd (rus)
   359.Достойны похвалы те, кто приложил усилия для экстрадиции Рамиля Сафарова в Азербайджан – Иса Гамбар. Salamnews. 31.08.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/162060/dostoyni-poxvali-te-kto-prilojil-usiliya-dlya-ekstradicii-ramilya-safarova-v-azerbaydan-ndash-isa-gambarnbspnbsp/. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/fad2ac8e (rus)
   360.Новруз Мамедов: «Благодаря решимости и воле Президента Азербайджана Рамиль Сафаров доставлен в Азербайджан». Newtimes.az. 31.08.2012. http://www.newtimes.az/ru/r0/s4/d8/2/n467/Новруз-Мамедов%3A-«Благодаря-решимости-и-воле-Президента-Азербайджана-Рамиль-Сафаров-доставлен-в-Азербайджан» the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/64c57d6a (rus)
   361.Двойные стандарты в вопросе освобождения азербайджанского офицера вызывают сожаление – вице-спикер. Trend. 03.09.2012. http://trend.az/news/politics/2061197.html (rus)
   362.Омбудсмен встретилась с Рамилем Сафаровым. 1.news.az. 03.09.2012. http://1news.az/society/20120903104550617.html (rus)
   363.Фуад Алескеров: «Возвращение Рамиля Сафарова в Азербайджан стало возможно лишь благодаря личному авторитету президента Ильхама Алиева». АПА. 31.08.2012. http://ru.apa.az/news/230240 (rus)
   364.Эксперт: Передача Рамиля Сафарова Азербайджану – это следование обычной практике в международных отношениях. Aze.az 01.09.2012. http://aze.az/news_ekspert_peredacha_ramilya_81557.html (rus)
   365.Турецкий полковник обратился к президенту Азербайджана для установления памятника Рамилю Сафарову. Apa.az 18.09.2012. http://ru.apa.az/news/231429 (rus)
   366.В Азербайджане празднуют освобождение Рамиля Сафарова – ВИДЕО. Day.az 01.09.2012. http://news.day.az/society/352460.html (rus)
   367.Молодежь Азербайджана выразила благодарность президенту страны за помилование Рамиля Сафарова. Salamnews. 31.08.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/162074/molodej-azerbaydana-virazila-blagodarnost-prezidentu-straninbspnbsp/. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/9dc54f79 (rus)
   368.Освобожденному азербайджанскому офицеру Рамилю Сафарову присвоено звание майора. Trend. 01.09.2012. http://trend.az/news/society/2060860.html (rus)
   369.Минобороны Азербайджана предоставило Рамилю Сафарову квартиру. Trend. 01.09.2012. http://trend.az/news/society/2060909.html (rus)
   370.В Милли Меджлисе обсудили вопрос по поводу Акрама Айлисли. Baku.ws. 02.02.2013. http://baku.ws/index.php?newsid=17897 (rus)
   371. Murad Köhnəqala yazır. Kulis.az. http://kulis.az/news/3980 (az)
   372. Qaçqınlar Cəmiyyəti Əkrən Əylisli ilə bağlı təkliflər irəli sürdü. Modern.az. 04.02.2013. http://modern.az/articles/34118/1/ (az)
   373.Əkrəm Əylisli ilə bağlı daha bir qalmaqal. Bizimyol. 19.02.2013. http://bizimyolinfo.com/?sehife=1&xeber=7409 (az)
   374. Afaq Məsud: ‘Əkrəm Əylislinin bu əsəri ədəbiyyatımıza qara ləkədir’. Azxeber.com. 30.01.2013. http://azxeber.com/news/27186.htm (az)
   375.Азербайджанские депутаты осудили скандальный роман Акрама Айлисли. Trend. 01.02.2013. http://trend.az/news/politics/2114547.html (rus)
   376.Байрам Сафаров: «Акрам Айлисли играет чувствами людей, потерявших близких или ставших инвалидами». Salamnews. 01.02.2013. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/56341/bayram-safarov-akram-aylisli-igraet-chuvstvami-lyudey-poteryavshix-blizkix-ili-stavshix-invalidami/ (rus)
   377.Роман Акрама Айлисли наносит большой моральный удар по азербайджанскому народу – Али Ахмедов. 1news.az. 01.02.2013 (rus)http://1news.az/politics/20130201124841041.html (rus)
   378.Депутаты предложили лишить Айлисли гражданства. Turan. 01.02.2013. http://contact.az/docs/2013/Politics/020100026828ru.htm (rus)
   379.Историки Азербайджана выразили недовольство произведением писателя Акрама Айлисли. Trend.az. 06.02.2013. http://trend.az/news/society/2116187.html (rus)
   380.Группа НПО подает в суд на Акрама Айлисли. Apa.az. 06.02.2013. http://ru.apa.az/novost_gruppa_npo_podaet_v_sud_na_akrama_ajlisl_240706.html (rus)
   381.Шейх: Айлисли оскорбил Гейдара Алиева. Turan. 13.02.2013. http://contact.az/docs/2013/Social/021300028297ru.htm (rus)
   382.Жители Айлиса: «Смерть Акраму Айлисли». Haqqin.az. 09.02.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/3722 (rus)
   383.Вся Гянджа сжигает книги Акрама Айлисли. Haqqin.az. 11.02.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/3764 (rus)
   384.Акция перед домом Акрама Айлисли. Радио «Азадлыг». 01.02.2013. http://radioazadlyg.org/content/article/24889448.html (rus)
   385.В Баку группа молодых писателей «похоронила» книгу «Каменные сны» Акрама Айлисли. Trend. 01.02.2013. http://trend.az/news/society/2114644.html (rus)
   386.Балыг Хафиз: «Отрежем правое ухо А.Айлисли, но тут же окажем медицинскую помощь». Haqqin.az. 12.02.2012. http://haqqin.az/news/3784 (rus)
   387.Ильхам Алиев подписал распоряжения о лишении Акрама Айлисли президентской пенсии и почетного звания. Trend. 07.02.2012. http://trend.az/news/politics/2116863.html (rus)
   388. Təhsil Nazirliyi: «Əkrəm Əylisli dərsliklərdən çıxarılacaq». Veteninfo.az. 19.02.2012. http://veteninfo.az/siyaset/10364.html (az)

   Ramil Safarov was pardoned and rewarded, with his years of imprisonment compensated with an apartment and 8-years’ pay,399 while Akram Aylisli was stripped of his awards400 becoming a target for ostracism and persecution.
   In June 2013, a retaliatory story by Zafar Aliyev was published entitledStone Truth401, in which the author replicated the events described by Akram Aylisli in a mirror setting. The plot of the story is built around the idea that Aylisli is an Armenian and a son of Dashnak. The story concludes with the fiery speech by a professor:
   &lt;…&gt; It seems that you welcome this to some extent. What sin are you speaking about?! What do you call a sin? Attempted self-defense? The wish to protect you from Armenians paid with the blood and lives of our soldiers? Or, do you call it a sin to protect our native land from the Armenian occupying forces? Is this a sin?! Would you agree that Armenians took away our land and home? Are you satisfied with that?!
   &lt;…&gt; Through this novel, Akper Ayishli insulted the whole nation. With this novel, Ayishli exerts psychological pressure on the entire nation. He slandered and abused our memory of those who died at the hands of Armenians. You seem to agree with that? And when those who suffered at the hands of Armenians protest against such lie and slander of Akper Ayishli, do you consider it to be a psychological pressure on an elderly man? And do you protest against it?
   &lt;…&gt; Only those, who have lost their honor or have never had any, can agree to what was written by Akper Ayishli!&lt;…&gt;
   &lt;…&gt; Do you really think that after all of this he must keep the title of a People’s Writer and receive a considerable presidential scholarship to continue writing such filth? I’m sure that in this case, many of you would have been outraged.&lt;…&gt;
   &lt;…&gt; It seems I have clearly exposed my position on the novel. The only question that remains unclear is who is the author of the novel? An Azerbaijani or an Armenian? I am more than confident that an Azerbaijani could not have written this. This could be written only by an Armenian, only by one who carries the hatred for Turks in his heart and genes.
   &lt;…&gt; The professor completed his speech and went down heading for the monument of Nizami, shaking his head in discontent.
   &lt;…&gt; Many of those gathered rolled down the banners and portraits of Akper Ayishli and threw them into garbage bins. The action disintegrated into groups, and its participants scattered engaging in a heated argument.
   The ethical principles are shaped in accordance with certain norms established in the society and shaping interpersonal relationships within the society.
   At the end of the day,“the good” gained the upper hand over “the evil” in Azerbaijan.
   13. Exporting armenophobia
   Any ideology, however perfect it may seem to be, cannot be considered full-fledged, if it does not enjoy the support and approval of the outside world. It is especially so, if we consider certain peculiarities of the character calling for a constant praise, admiration and rapture.
   Thus, the victory over the common sense and civilization in Azerbaijan cannot be deemed complete inasmuch as the ideology of armenophobia does not seem to enjoy much of a support from anybody else in the outside world. From the perspective of Azerbaijani figures, the outside world underestimates and misjudges“the true essence of Armenians”, with Azerbaijan taking up the mission of “exposing the truth to the world”.
   After forming a perfectly armenophobic top-down hierarchy going all the way from the authorities to the lowest social strata, Azerbaijan has embarked upon its mission of disseminating its philosophy of“tolerance with preconditions” across the globe. During international meetings, conferences, workshops and conventions, apart from sharing their experience in reinforcing tolerance with their foreign colleagues, Azerbaijani figures rub in the “truth about Armenians” with a missionary zeal.
   The onus for exporting armenophobia is placed on every patriot of Azerbaijan, from representatives of the authorities to plain citizens, irrespective of their sex, age, social status and intellectual capacity.
   Several forms of taking a“civic stand” and exposing the truth about Armenians can be identified from the press.

   Pointed refusals to take part in events, if they involve or relate to Armenians
   In Austria, the ballet Gаyаne was staged in dedication to the Armenian artist Gayane Khachaturyan and planned to feature Mehman and Nariman Mardanovs, dancers from Azerbaijan, who in their time were admitted to Europaballett St.Pölten at the personal request of the Azerbaijan’s Minister of Culture. However, Azerbaijanis refused to take part in the project under the pretext that the artist Gayane Khachaturyan was Armenian. Shortly after, the Austrian Minister of Culture stepped in to investigate the scandal and requested the Azerbaijani dancers to leave the country. Mardanov brothers have already sent back to Baku.402
   An Azerbaijani refused to introduce an Armenian singer at an international contest.&lt;…&gt; Azerbaijan was presented at the contest by 16-year-old Emin Eminzadeh, a student of the music school№ 35 of Baku under the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, who was a prize winner of the last year’s contest and was invited by the organizing committee as an honorary guest to act as a host person.&lt;…&gt; Emin presented the Armenian delegation only very briefly refraining from the announcement of the Armenian singer on stage and pronouncing words of praise about Armenia in violation of the rules of the contest. He did not change his position even after the intervention of the organizing committee declaring his readiness to hand down the functions of the host person. This created some tension, and ultimately, the Armenian singer was presented by the host person from Lithuania, Ruta Lukoseviciute.&lt;…&gt; Emin also declined the invitation of the Armenian delegation to take part in an international contest to be held in Yerevan this October.&lt;…&gt; Emin Eminzadeh attended the Opus-2013 contest together with his teacher, Fidan Gasimova, People’s Artist of the USSR, and his father, Khazar Emin, a board member of the World Azerbaijanis Congress.403

   Abuse in respect of Armenians and persons who are related to them or have expressed a positive opinion on them
   Azerbaijani director:“Had there been a boy instead of a little girl, I would bang his head against the wall for asking me if I was Armenian”.
   Publika.az published a story by Shamil Sadig entitled“Armenian Child”, with its plot most probably unfolding in Russia during a rehearsal dedicated to Aghdam events of 1992. Under the guidance of an Azerbaijani director nicknamed Lamakan, children learn poems about Khojaly and the anthem of Azerbaijan. However, things advance slowly, because according to the director, “children do not feel the essence of the tragedy”.
   After another session at the arts and leisure center, as the director is about to leave, a group of primary school pupils enters the room accompanied by their teacher of Russian. A blond girl comes up to the director and asks:“Mister, are you Armenian?”
   The director describes his indignation and outrage over the question, but tells of patting the girl’s head and answering that he was not Armenian, but Azerbaijani. To his friends, who witnessed this incident, he said that had there been a boy instead of a little girl, he would have banged his head against the wall to show what it meant to be an Armenian.
   As the story unfolds, after a while, the same girl approaches him and supposedly says:“Do you know that you are our enemies? Your grandfathers killed our grandfathers and grandmothers. My mom says that I should have no friends form among Turks, that they are our eternal enemies. The story further describes how a grown-up man enters a debate with a young child and sets out to proveto her that Armenians are to blame for the events of Khojaly. The teacher of Russian steps in and takes the child away from the Azerbaijanis.404
   On July 30, 2013, in the military unit№ 48315 of the city of Znamensk, Astrakhan Oblast, Emil Abdullayev, an old-timer conscript of Azerbaijani origin (who had served 8 months) attacked an Armenian, Jean Meroyan, who had just taken his oath of allegiance. The incident took place in the toilet, with the Azerbaijani first shouldering the Armenian aside and then in reply to his question of why he had done so, all of a sudden charged at the Armenian hitting him and breaking his jaw.405

   Demands to isolate ethnic Armenians from public venues
   The Azerbaijani football club Simurg demanded from the management of the Limаk Atlаntis hotel in Antalya to evict players and the staff of the Armenian club Gandzasar who stayed at the same hotel. “It is not clear how could the management of the hotel in their right mind host at the same hotel teams from Azerbaijan and Armenia”, stated a representative of Simurg. “Either we will check out without paying, or the management will evict the Armenian team”, stated the representatives of the Azerbaijani club.406
   Ramiz Mamedov, the coach of the Kazakh Atyrau team, aired his position about the Armenian forward, Tigran Gharabaghtsyan, who had a contract with the club.“As far as I know, Gharabaghtsyan is no longer a player of Atyrau. But if it is not so, I’m in for a conversation with the club’s management. If I work with Atyrau, there will be no Armenians around”, stated Mamedov.407

   Accusations against business entities for parallel business projects with both Armenia and Azerbaijan
   This results in exhorting their business partners to cease economic contacts with ethnic Armenians or companies owned by Armenians or with Armenian staff members.
   An Iranian company running buses between Tabriz and Yerevan rents an office in Baku International Bus Terminal.“A reader of our information resource was concerned over this fact. As reported by AZE.az, the Iranian company which runs buses between Tabriz and Yerevan rents an office in Baku International Bus Terminal. This information was communicated by our reader, Samira Aliyeva, who had lately arrived from Tabriz. As can be seen from the ticket enclosed, Aram Safar Company provides passenger transportation to Istanbul, Yerevan, Ankara, Syria, Van and Baku. By the way, the capital of Azerbaijan is mentioned last for some reason.408
   Azerbaijan demanded explanation from the official Ankara over operating flights between Van and Yerevan.“The opening of this flight does not comply with Turkey’s position on the occupation of the Azerbaijani lands”, stated Ali Ahmedov, Deputy Chairman and Executive Secretary of the ruling party Yeni Azerbaijan.&lt;…&gt; As long as Azerbaijani lands are not liberated from the occupation, we don’t want any easing in the relationship between Turkey and Armenia”.409

   Organization of armenophobic events involving the residents of the countries where they are held
   Habib Abdullayev (Muntazir), an Azerbaijani who lives in Germany, was fined by a court verdict to pay a sum of 900 euros for disparaging comments about the Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan. Habib Abdullayev was detained on June 22, 2010 as he was shouting anti-Armenian slogans during the visit of the Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan to Berlin.410

   Indiscriminate use of international platforms for armenophobic propaganda
   Another anti-Armenian provocation attempt was thwarted at 18th International Book Fair held in Minsk in 2011. Armenia and Azerbaijan presented their stands at the fair; however, the Azerbaijani delegation preferred to cram their stand with anti-Armenian propaganda materials rather than any interesting literature. The Armenian delegation immediately drew the organizers’ attention to this inadmissible fact by noting that Armenia featured at the fair mostly literature on culture, while Azerbaijan presented literature containing unabashed anti-Armenian falsifications and xenophobic propaganda. As a result, the Azerbaijani stand was closed down, and the Azerbaijani delegation was forced to leave the fair and discontinue its participation.411
   Zarifa Salahova, owner of the museum and collection of miniature books: In 2004, I visited the United States as a part of an Azerbaijani delegation of art historians and museum workers,&lt;…&gt;. Imagine the situation; when I took the floor, all members of the delegation except Alla Bayramova, director of the Museum of Culture, tried to dissuade me from this undertaking as“we didn’t come for that”. I sharply retorted that I knew better and told the Americans of our pain. Later, we were accommodated in host American families. There again, I spent two and a half hours telling them the story of Karabakh on the very first evening. I gave them printed materials anda CD in English. Every evening, my host family received different guests who listened to my story of the tragedy of Karabakh with interest. I was invited to visit other Americans and I always started my conversation with Karabakh. Once, my hosts asked for my permission to introduce me to an American Armenian whose ancestors had moved to the United States in late 19th century. He told me of Armenia’s difficult situation in late 2004 and considered that if Armenians did not give us back Karabakh, their lot would be even harsher.412

   Public scandals and intimidation of representatives of international and foreign organizations and structures
   At the international conference“Music for Democracy”held in Baku,an argument erupted between Chingiz Ganizadeh, a member of the Azerbaijani parliament, and Volker Beck, a deputy of Germany’s Bundestag. In his address to those attending the conference, the Azerbaijani deputy aired his indignation over the fact that “a person who did not acknowledge the occupation of Azerbaijan’s territories was invited to attend the conference Music for Democracy, something that elicits feelings of regret and surprise”.413
   After the Rabochaya Gazeta Ukrainian newspaperpublished in its issue of February 23 an article entitled“Imperishable celebration of loyalty, bravery and fortitude”, the staff of the Azerbaijani Vesti.az information agency started terrorizing the editorial staff of the Rabochaya Gazeta Ukrainian newspaper and the author of the article. The article told the story of Hamayak Arshakovich Safaryan, apanel member of the Kiev War Veteran’s Organization noting that “he was born in the ancient Armenian land of Nagorno-Karabakh, in the village of Kemrakuch of Hadrut region”. The Azerbaijani information agency demanded an acknowledgment stating that Nagorno-Karabakh was an Azerbaijani land. After receiving a polite rebuff, Vesti. az voices its indignation: “That’s it! No apologies, no assurances that tomorrow the newspaper will publish a clarification on this matter in its next issue.&lt;…&gt; How can Tolokin, who lives in the remote city of Kiev, know about Armenian guile and perfidy?”.414

   Public scandals and intimidation foreign citizens accompanied by verbal abuse
   The Azerbaijani websiteVesti.az: The news that the famous Turkish singer Sezen Aksu will sing the song Sari Gelin in Armenian and will include it into her new album, became an unpleasant surprise to me. This is another occasion for Armenians to pass the Azerbaijani song Sari Gelin as an‘anthem of love’ of the Armenian Ashot and his ‘chick’ Haykanush. I think that you will agree that this occasion is meaningful as it is a Turkish woman who sings this song in Armenian. Although after what happened, I doubt that this singer really has Turkish blood running through her veins.415
   Akif Islamzadeh, singer:As far as Sezen Aksu is concerned, I can understand her: she has lost her voice and she needs money. Her hoarse-voiced singing will do for Armenians; for them, she will be like Montserrat Caballe. And my advice to her would be not to politicize this song and pay more attention to her reputation.416

   Unsolicited junk mail with armenophobic contents and calls against people who are viewed asholding a pro-Armenian position.
   Akif Nagi, the chairman of the Karabakh Liberation Organization (KLO), addressed a letter to the Pope Benedict XVI in protest against the canonization of the late Pope John Paul II because he did not support the Azerbaijani position in the Karabakh conflict.“During his visit to Yerevan in September 2003, he paid tribute to the tombs of Armenians killed in the Karabakh war” and therefore, may not be canonized.417

   Involvement of foreigners to give weight to their position
   “Armenia is a cancerous tumor on the body of the Southern Caucasus and must be removed”, stated the historian Guram Marhuliya (decorated with Tereggi medal and bestowed an honorable doctorate from the History Institute of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan of his merit in developingscientific ties between Georgia and Azerbaijan) who had been dismissed from the Sukhumi State University on charges of armenophobia, in an interview to the Azerbaijani Vesti.Az information agency.418

   Publications in foreign press containing abusive headings or insulting epithets
   The authors of such articles are mainly representatives of the diplomatic corps of Azerbaijan or simply Azerbaijanis who live there. As a rule, xenophobic articles are purported to represent the opinion of the editorial staff, the journalist or the public at large.
   A Mexican newspaper published an article entitled Armenian Duplicity:The Mexican Milenio newspaper published an article entitled Armenian Duplicity by Ilgar Mukhtarov, Azerbaijan’s ambassador to the country.419
   The Azerbaijani website1news.соm.tr: The Azerbaijani popular song Sari Gelin passed for an Armenian song and performed in the presence of the Foreign Affairs Minister Ahmed Davutoglu raised uproar in the Azerbaijani mass media.420
   The Azerbaijani websiteAnspress: The artistic director of the ATV (Azad Azərbaycan) channel and a famous anchorperson Elchin Alibeyli has been dismissed from the TV channel. E. Alibeyli has been removed from office after performing the song Sari Gelin in Armenian.&lt;…&gt; Getting his spirits high at a party, Elchin Alibeyli started singing in Armenian a part from Sari Gelin. Many representatives of the show business and mass media attending the party became witnesses to this“gift” of the famous anchorperson.&lt;…&gt; According to the sources of Lent.az at the channel, Elchin was dismissed from his office starting from yesterday precisely for performing the Azerbaijani popular song Sari Gelin in Armenian.421
   The Russian Informational AgencyRegnum: On his Facebook page, Elsever Salmanov, the staff member of the Azerbaijani embassy in Ankara, voiced strident criticism against the Turkish newspaper Radikal. The cause for resentment was the fact that the newspaper in its highlight of a musical festival in Ankara, mentioned the Armenian song Sari Gelin. In this connection, the Azerbaijani diplomat said that either the Turkish newspaper had Armenians in its staff who had betrayed their editorial principles and were guided by national feelings, or the journalists served Armenians at the call of their hearts.
   Incidentally, he exhorted all like-minded persons to raise their voice of protest against Radikal and Armenians, respectively. This brought a sharp reaction from the editorial staff.&lt;…&gt;“Yeni Musavat newspaper observes that Rаdikаl has been previously noted for its “anti-Azerbaijani position”, while the website Teref.infо considers that indicating Sari Gelin as an Armenian song became a result of a conflict and lack of coordination between the newspaper and Azerbaijan’sdiplomatic mission in Ankara.422
   It must be noted that the song Sari Gelin is one of the bitter pills in virtually unclouded relationships between brotherly Turkey and Azerbaijan. In Armenia and Turkey, this song is considered Armenian. In particular, G. Karanfil, a Turkish scholar, considers that the songSari Gelinhas its roots in a nameless Armenian song that has become a part of the Turkish culture over the centuries.423 This opinion is shared by many Turkish scholars and musicians, which ignites a firestorm in official and cultural milieu of Azerbaijan claiming the authorship of the song as its own. Any publication containing a mention of the wordArmenianwith reference to this song provokes a huge social and diplomatic uproar in Azerbaijan. The matter may go as far as to cause the country’s diplomatic missions to step in.
   All these activities are meaningful and significant for those who live in Azerbaijan. This creates a false perception of the omnipotence and infallibility of Azerbaijan’s positions in their unequal fight in the face of the enemy personified by Armenians. Frequently, the citizens of the country permeated with armenophobia find themselves outside its boundaries to face a different and unknown reality: It turns out that there are Armenians there, and they coexist perfectly well with Azerbaijanis who “flout honor and faith” by interacting, having common business, falling in love, marrying or even spending their leisure with Armenians.
   Such discovery can cause a psychological trauma to any person for whom“patriotism”andarmenophobiaare synonymous.
   We came to a famous restaurant named Lights of the Orient. It was an Azerbaijani restaurant, and once I set foot in the place, I felt the scent of my motherland. All the personnel and waiters were Azerbaijanis. We took a table with my friends and after taking a few bits, I turned my attention to the singer. Somehow he didn’t look like one of us.
   Oh Allah… it couldn’t be true! The singer was Armenian. I almost choked on my food and couldn’t swallow, so I took out the bit and put it on my plate. Of course, my friends knew about my patriotism; therefore, they quickly figured out everything and started appeasing me. By that time, I was struck speechless.&lt;…&gt; I sensed that Intigam was ashamed of something and felt uneasy. I inquired about the singer’s nationality and was given the answer: Armenian. I felt as if my head were scalded with boiling water.&lt;…&gt; Let Armenians come to our restaurant, get a poisoning and return to where they came from.
   &lt;…&gt; We are a very hospitable people, which is the reason of all our woes and tribulations that plagued us. However, the fact that an Armenian singer worked in our restaurant was unbearable. However, the most unbearable was yet to come!
   &lt;…&gt; The Armenians started singing, and the folks at the next table– elderly women, young girls and children – stood up and started dancing. There were about 10 of them, and they dominated the place. It turned out that the dancing people too were Armenians. I was dumbfounded with shock and indignation. I felt as though somebody were publicly throwing the vilest abuse and obscenities at me.&lt;…&gt;“Be damned, Armenian”, cursed I in my mind and asked him to sing Tut Agaci.&lt;…&gt; Oh, Allah, to this day, I have never been more humiliated and insulted. It seemed that up to that moment, I hadn’t known my true character. I never knew that I was so inpatient, sensible and patriotic.
   &lt;…&gt; As a true Turk and a son of Turk, I made up my mind to cry in solitude. My soul was ablaze, a firestorm was raging inside, but my crying was not that of helplessness and defeat. No, these were tears that allowed me to vent my hatred and cold determination that I was seizing with.&lt;…&gt; Indeed, those who in one way or another work with Armenians and deal with them for business don’t even deserve to be called ‘traitors of their country”.424
   Those who realize that there is a divergent reality inside and outside Azerbaijan and break the taboo by opting for a closer contact with Armenians are targeted for attacks by the authorities. The ultimate destiny of these people and their family members is unenviable.
   The daughter of a high-ranking official in the Azerbaijani government who pursues her studies in London became romantically involved with an Armenian; in official circles of Azerbaijan, the news was received with shock. Learning of this affair, other Azerbaijanis who studied in London raised a wave of outcry under the leadership of Tale Heydarov, chairman of the European Azerbaijan Society and the son of Kamaladdin Heydarov, the Minister of Emergency Situations of Azerbaijan. They demanded from the authorities to make the girl’s father take measures and “put an end to that disgrace”. The country’s leadership demanded to return the girl to Azerbaijan without delay.425
   The double defeat of Teimour Radjabov by Levon Aronyan on the chess tournament held in London was pegged as‘shameful’ in Azerbaijan as the tournament was sponsored by the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan (SOCAR) which spent 2 million euros on its organization.&lt;…&gt; Radjabov already became impudent back at the time of Heydar Aliyev.&lt;…&gt; It appears that after his marriage or more precisely after he started leading a lavish lifestyle, Radjabov has lost his form”. “On a tournament financed by Azerbaijan, a representative of our country has lost to an Armenian. The point is that no Azerbaijani chess player has a potential to win at this tournament. Spending millions of dollars to finance a tournament in London with participation of an Armenian in full awareness of this fact is a disgrace. How are our officials any different from the Arab sheikhs, who have a reputation of prodigal spenders, if they squander away over 2 million euros for Radjabov’s participation in the London tournament?”.426
   14. Destruction of the cultural and historic Armenian heritage
   The destruction of monuments of Armenian culture and history on the territory of Azerbaijan fulfills an important psychological task: the obliteration of historical symbols sacred for the enemy delivers a blow to the most vulnerable spot of the community. Arlene Audergon in her book entitledThe War Hotel: Psychological Dynamics in Violent Conflictnotes that the destruction of culture has always been and continues to be one of the main terror tactics purporting to strip the victim of any memories linking him/her to the community.427
   Here, the collective spirit as a whole is at stake. One way to erase human memory and retouch the history comes down to destroying monuments, statues and temples. The war on the historical legacy of Armenians waged on the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan employs precisely this approach. A renowned orientalist and academician N. Y. Marr particularly noted with reference to Armenian khachkars:“this monument reflects each step of development of national architecture, and often combines both currents of the Armenian architecture: the spiritual and the secular. Khachkar truly represents the “memory of the land of our fathers” communicating with an extraordinary force and precision the spirit of the Armenian art”.
   The sad fate of the Armenian memorial cemetery of Jugha, pearl of the world culture on the territory of the Armenian Nakhijevan, which was destroyed by order of the Azerbaijani authorities, must be viewed in this context.
   “Nakhijevan of the ancient Armenians, Naxuana of classic writers, an uyezd city of the Erivan Governorate perched at an altitude of around 3,000 feet above sea level on the foothills of the Karabakh upland. According to legend, it was founded by Noah whose tomb is shown by local Armenians. Some Persian and Armenian historians date its foundation to 1539 B.C.428 A well-known orientalist Heinrich Hübschmann wrote that the toponym “Nakhijevan” originates from the Armenian prefix “nakh-” and the root “avan” meaning “the place of the first landing”.429
   The region was known by ancient Greek authors by its name of either“Nakhijevan” or “Naxuana”. A Jewish historian Flavius Josephus calls the place “Apobatherion” – literal translation of the Armenian toponym. He wrote: “And then, when the ark stopped atop a mountain in Armenia, and Noah observed this, the latter opened it and seeing a patch of land near the ark hoped for the best and was reassured&lt;…&gt;. This place is referred by Armenians as“the site of the landing” and to this day they show there the remains preserved from the ark”.430
   Throughout the 20th century, especially after the transfer of Armenian Nakhijevan“under the patronage” of the Soviet Azerbaijan, a program of de-Armenizing the region was launched, including a complete obliteration of ancient Armenian material culture. Incidentally, the Muslim population in Nakhijevan was so scant that even in the early nineteenth century there were only six mosques in the area. Meanwhile, the region had over 200 Armenian monasteries, churches and chapels.431
   The khachkars of Jugha, the well-known cross-stones432 predominantly dating to the XIII–XVIII centuries, are marvelous monuments and distinctive specimens of Christian memorial architecture.
   The French traveler Alexandre de Rhodes (1591–1660), who visited the area in 1648, wrote: “Beyond the walls of that city (Julfa), which is now only desert, I saw a beautiful monument to the ancient piety of Armenians. This is an extensive territory in which there are at least ten thousands of marble tombstones, all amazingly well engraved. A large white marble slab twelve feet height and eight feet wide can be seen at each grave with many beautiful shapes engraved around a large cross. It is very pleasing to see such a large number of marble slabs”.433
   In 1603, one of the first British travelers to Persia and Armenia John Newbery, left the following entries in his memoirs:
   Four days journey from Merenta [Maranda] and a day journey from Julfa, there is a wooden pontoon bridge; there was once a stone bridge, but it disintegrated. And Aras– this is the name the river – flows in front of the city, and the city itself lies at the foot of mountains. This city has three thousands houses and seven churches…434
   It is widely known that in Middle Ages Jugha was a thriving Armenian city. However, in 1604, the Persian shah Abbas forcibly resettled its inhabitants to Isfahan, which to this day has an Armenian quarter known asNew Jugha.Many travelers visited the ruins of the destroyed city and its cemetery over the years.
   The British orientalist Sir William Ausley, who visited the city in 1812 and found the city fallen into a state of decay, wrote about the following: the largeness of its former population is evidenced by a rich and full cemetery placed on a sloping riverbank and covered with multiple rows of vertical tombstones, which, if looked not from afar, remind a gathering of people or even a regiment set in a close formation.435
   The first steps in the scheme for obliteration of the Armenian monuments were taken in November 1998, when it was observed from the Iranian side of the border that some khachkars had been taken off their bases and smashed to pieces. Shortly after, they were all toppled.436 According to International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), the Azerbaijani government eliminated 800 khachkars in 1998. Although the destruction was halted after protests from UNESCO, it, nevertheless, resumed four years later. By January 2003, a“1500-year-old cemetery was completely razed to the ground”. The President of ICOMOS Michael Petzet notes: “Now that all traces of this highly important historic site seem to have been extinguished all we can do is mourn the loss and protest against this totally senseless destruction”.437
   In 1999, the president Heydar Aliyev in his speech pronounced“at a grand rally to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the foundation of the Soviet Autonomous Republic of Nakhchivan” declared Nakhijevan as “one of the most ancient lands of Azerbaijan” with its history dating back 3,500 years and urged to “analyze, explore and write” the history ofthe region.438 It is after this statement that the final stage of obliterating the traces of Armenian presence in Nakhijevan was officially launched.
   To this end, a special archaeological expedition was mounted to compile the list of the Armenian monuments to be obliterated. Later, Najaf Museyibli, deputy scientific director of the Institute of Archeology and Ethnography of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan, noted:“The expedition was created at the direct behest of Heydar Aliyev and worked until 2003”.439 He also notes that“there is not even the slightest trace of Armenians in the Southern Caucasus. In the Caucasus, since ancient times and to the present day, mass graves of a different anthropological type were found representing the ancestors of the Azerbaijani people. This land has never had any Armenian root whatsoever”.440
   It should be specifically underscored that the operation of ultimately obliterating the traces of the Armenian ethnic and cultural presence was carried out by the units of the Azerbaijani army.441
   In December 2005, the Azerbaijani regular troops smashed to pieces the khachkars of Jugha and loaded what remained of them into dump trucks. The trucks drove up to the riverbank and dumped the debris into the river. In a very short time, the medieval cemetery was flattened, and a military firing range was constructed in its place.
   In 2006, the European Parliament formally exhorted Azerbaijan to halt the destruction in violation of the UNESCO Convention on the World Heritage;442 however, in the spring of the same year Baku debarred the commission of the European parliament from inspecting the site of the former cemetery.443 Charles Tannock, British spokesman in the European parliament, gave the following commentary of the events:“This is very similar to the Buddha statues destroyed by the Taliban. They have concreted the area over and turned it into a military camp. If they have nothing to hide then we should be allowed to inspect the terrain”.444 Nevertheless, the international community has long demonstratedа remarkable indifference to the obliteration of khachkars, while Yerevan’s appeal for sending a mission of observers to the site of destruction was barred.445
   In 2006, the Institute for War and Peace Reporting (IWPR) published a reportAzerbaijan: Famous Medieval Cemetery Vanishes,446 in which it confirmed that nothing had been left of the famous stone-crosses of Jugha.
   Already in summer 2009, the Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev stated:“Nakhchivan is an ancient Azerbaijani land. For centuries, our people have lived and built on this splendid land. The historical and architectural monuments located in Nakhchivan show how great the talent of the Azerbaijani people is&lt;…&gt;. Nakhchivan gave Azerbaijan great personalities. Nakhchivan gave Azerbaijan the great leader Heydar Aliyev”.447
   The historian Argam Ayvazyan, a specialist of Armenian monuments in Nakhijevan, notes that Jugha was a unique monument of medieval art and the largest of the existing Armenian cemeteries. There were unique tombstones in the form of ram heads, a church and the ruins of a massive stone bridge. The historian notes that nowhere in the world was there such a large concentration of thousands of khachkars in one place.“All over Nakhijevan, there were 27,000 monasteries, churches, khachkars, tombstones and other Armenian monuments. Today, they are all destroyed”, said Ayvazyan.448
   Before XI century, Nakhijevan had as much as 218 Armenian Christian places of worship (monasteries, churches, chapels), 41 fortresses, 26 bridges, 4,500 khachkars and 23 thousands tombstones. In the early 1990s, the monasteries and churches in Agoulis, Aproukunis, Shorot, Krna and Tskhna, and in other Armenian-populated settlements of Nakhijevan were dynamited and razed to the ground.449
   In the book entitledArchitecture of ancient and early medieval Azerbaijanpublished in 1986, its author Davud Akhunov declares that all khachkars of Julfa in Nakhijevan are Albanian monuments.450 Nevertheless, even the declaration of these khachkars (tombstones) as Albanian heritage did not balk the Azerbaijani authorities from obliterating the medieval cemetery.
   The Azerbaijani propaganda employs an identical artifice in respect of Armenian historical monuments in Artsakh. Specifically, the Azerbaijani side steadfastly ignores the existence of numerous Armenian records of donations on the walls of the Gandzasar monastery, to which the renowned art and architecture historian A. Jakobson refers to as the“encyclopedia of XIII century Armenian architecture”. They equally disregard the fact that the construction of the Gandzasar complex occurred in the XIII century, when Aghvank (Albania per the Azerbaijani version) had already ceased to exist as a state. Meanwhile, apart from the fact that the monastery was built in the Armenian architectural tradition, its founder Hasan Jalal was an Armenian as testified by medieval historians and evidenced by inscriptions on the monastery itself.
   А remarkable example was recorded in 2004, when the Norwegian Humanitarian Enterprise, supported by the Norwegian ambassador in Baku Steiner Gil, decided to restore and renovatethe St. Elisaeus Church built in 1823 in the village of Nij. The works had to be carried out by local Azerbaijani authorities.
   The Norwegian ambassador gave the following account of the events: By the end of 2004 or early 2005, all Armenian inscriptions on the walls of the church or on the tombstones around it were erased with scraping equipment. The Norwegian embassy and the Norwegian Humanitarian Enterprise issued a joint press release voicing their protest against this act of vandalism. Restoration works were suspended for a while, but, after receiving a letter with apologies from the Udi community, Norwegian Humanitarian Enterprise agreed to resume the funding of the restoration works. Personally, I believe this apology is essentially unsatisfactory also because the apology was not been made public. In addition, no one has been held accountable for this act of vandalism. Together with the other ambassadors in Baku I was invited to the opening ceremony. I told my colleagues that because of the vandalism and the lack of appropriate response, no one from the Norwegian embassy would attend the opening ceremony. None of the ambassadors was present at the ceremony.451
   The vandalism scandal was exposed on February 17, 2005 in the Worldwide Religious News magazine under the heading“Christian minority in Azerbaijan gets rid of the Armenian eye sore” covering the incident in detail.452
   “We have no God, our people lost their religion under communism and this church is our only hope of reviving it,” said Georgi Kechaari, one of the village elders who doubles as the ethnic group’s historian. “But we live in Azerbaijan, and when people came into the church and saw Armenian letters, they automatically associated us with Armenians,” he said.
   “The Udi, who once used the Armenian alphabet, have struggled to separate their legacy from that of their fellow Christians, the Armenians, who fought a war with Azerbaijan and have been vilified here. “It was a beautiful inscription, 200 years old, it even survived the war,” told Steinar Gil, Norway’s Ambassador to Azerbaijan. “This is an act of vandalism, and Norway in no way wants to be associated with it”.
   “They think they have erased a reminder of being Armenian… instead they have taken away the chance to have a good image when the church is inaugurated,” said the director of the NHE in Azerbaijan, Alf Henry Rasmussen.
   Another particularly illustrative example is the church in Dashkesan, which the authorities preferred to destroy, at the same time putting the blame for this on… Armenians.
   The Albanian church in Dashkesan fell into a deplorable state because of Armenians who sought to armenize it. This monument dating back to the fifth century is under threat of destruction because of its ownerless status. The reason for such condition of the monument is that Armenians attempted to armenize the Albanian church. Later, the local population tried to destroy the church because they considered it to be an Armenian one. In order to create an acoustic effect, empty vessels were built into the walls of the church at the time of its construction. Those who believed that the vessels were filled with gold stooped to destroying the walls and dug all over the surrounding area.453
   That comes to say that as long as Armenians lived in Dashkesan, and the church was considered (and in fact is, author’s note) Armenian, it was heartlessly exposed to sack and pillage. In line with its new Albanization policy of the Christian heritage on the territory of Azerbaijan, the church was declared Albanian, and its destruction condemned with perpetrators readily found: Armenians.
   The importance and the role of Armenians in shaping the historical architectural look of Baku in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries– as the economic growth propelled the city through an urban development boom – are now passed over in silence. In many ways, the architectural look of Baku was formed thanks to the active and effective involvement of St. Petersburg-educated Armenian architects and builders. The architects below made an especially significant contribution into the construction of Baku: G. Ter-Mikayelyan, V. Sargsyan (Sarkisov), N. Bayev, H. Ter-Hovhannisyan (Qajaznuni), F. Aghalyan, A. Kandinyan, M. Ter-Grigoryants. The Armenian architects gave an overhaul to the new style stemming from Russia and createdin Baku some distinctive specimens of architecture and construction.454
   One of the founders of Baku architectural style is Gabriel Ter-Mikayelyan, who was the author of public buildings erected in the early twentieth century. Ter-Mikayelyan drafted the facade of the main building of the city magistrate. He designed (1910–1912) the building of the Center for Public Gatherings (now the Philharmonic Hall of Azerbaijan), the maternity hospital (1899), the building of the Baku branch of the Commercial Bank of Tiflis (1902–1903) which presently houses the shop “Detskiy Mir” and the College of Commerce (1905–1910). An important aspect of Ter-Mikayelyan’s work was the construction of churches.
   Another major contribution to the architecture and urban development of Baku in the early twentieth century was made by N. Bayev. In 1911–1918, he was the chief architect of Baku. In 1913, he designed the building of Mailyan Brothers Theater (now the State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater), a hospital complex (19 infirmaries and 24 buildings), several schools, a grammar school, residential buildings of Salimanov, Sheremetyev and others, Sabunchi railway station (1927), surgical hospital after Semashko, the Armenikend district and others.
   The Armenian architect V. Sargsyan designed over 10 buildings in the oil industry city of Baku. F. Agalyan designed the buildings of the grammar school, the maternity hospital, the treasury, the Workers House and many others. A number of buildings were also designed by H. Qajaznuni, M. Ter-Grigoryants and many others. The buildings designed by Armenian architects, still beautify Baku, the capital city of Azerbaijan.

   Incomplete list of destroyed Armenian historical monuments on the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan:
   The Church of St. John of the 17th century(or St. Holy Mother, Surb Astvatsatsin) in the village of Azat (Suluk), Khanlar region of Northern Karabakh, was dynamited, but withstood due to its solid structure.455
   The Church of the Holy Savior of the 17th centuryin the village of Kamo, Khanlar region of Northern Karabakh, desperately needed restoration as its roof had almost completely sloped down, and only the altar stayed intact under the roof. After occupying the church in 1989 and banishing the last Armenian residents in 1990, the Azerbaijanis blew up the church, and now only a few stones indicate the place, where once was the altar.456
   Chapel and church on the nearby hill in the village of Metsshen, not far from Berdzor (Lachin), Shushi region. After the withdrawal of the Azerbaijani forces from Shushi during the Karabakh war, the chapel was revealed to be blown up, and its territory to be partially cleared up, with only a few stones indicating the place where once the chapel stood. As for the church, it withstood due to its solid structure and quality building mortar, despite the attempts to destroy it.457
   Armenian church of St. John (Hovhannes) in the city of Ganja (Gandzak)The church dates back to 1633. It was renovated in 1860 evidenced by a memorial plaque above the entrance. While the church operated up to the 1990s, after the end of hostilities, the Azerbaijani authorities decided to transform the church into a concert hall. To hide the Armenian origin of the building, all Armenian inscriptions on the walls and inside and outside the church were erased or shaded.458
   Amaras Monastery, Martuni Region of ArtsakhUnder Azerbaijan’s control, this monastery dating back to the 4th century and located near the village of Machkalashen was neglected and doomed to slow disintegration. It was restored only after the local Armenians established control over the territory. The withdrawing Azerbaijani troops desecrated and broke topieces the most significant tombstone in the monastery – the tombstone of St. Grigoris, the founder and the first Catholicos (patriarch) of the Church of Caucasian Albania. Some original pieces have been lost, but the headstone was beyond restoration and, therefore, was replaced by a copy. This is yet another illustrative example of how the people who consider themselves descendants and successors of Albanians destroy the heritage of Caucasian Albania of which they claim ownership.459
   The St. Gevorg Church in the village of Dashbulag formerly populated by Armenians (until 1918)was turned into a cattle-shed and presented as an“Albanian” church. The church was built in 1828, and a record on its construction work survived. The workLand of Aluank and the Neighborspublished in 1893 by Bishop Makar Barkhudaryants also contains a reference to this church.“Those misled into thinking that this is an Albanian church must understand that it simply could not be Albanian as Albanians had disappeared from the international arena 1000 years ago and therefore, could not by any means build a church 1000 years later”, writes Samvel Karapetyan, the head oftheResearch on Armenian ArchitectureNGO.460
   Saint Gregory the Illuminator (Lusavorich) Armenian Cathedral in Bakuwas built in the Parapet Square in 1869–1871. In 1873, a parish school, library and housing for the Diocesan church superiors were built on the premises of the cathedral. In 1888, bells were hoisted on the cathedral. Later, the building for the Armenian Humanitarian Society was constructed nearby to include the library. Up to 1989, the St. Gregory the Illuminator was the only Armenian church to function in Baku. Today, the cross is removed, and the building of the church is used as a book depository.461
   Virgin Mary Church of late 19th century in the Icheri Sheher district in BakuThe church was located to the left of the Maiden Tower. It was demolished in the 1990s. According to various sources, the church was built in 1797–1799 after Russian troops captured the city (and was renovated later). Some data also suggest that the church was founded on the place of an ancient pagan temple of Zoroastrians. This territory was a cult destination, and therefore, representatives of all religions sought to found their holy places there. In 1984, the foundation of the church developed cracks and an emergency condition. The church was pulled down during the Karabakh conflict.
   The Church of Holy Apostles Thaddeus and Bartholomew in Baku was built in 1911by donations from E. Budagov and was designed by architect H. O. Qajaznuni (subsequently the first prime minister of the First Armenian Republic). In the 1930s, the Cathedral was pulled down and its foundation used for building the State Conservatory.
   The Holy Resurrection Chapel was built in 1894 on the territory of the Armenian cemetery in Baku.The Chapel was demolished in the 1930s for construction of the Upland Park.
   The Armenian Evangelical Lutheran prayer house was founded in 1912on rented land owned by Our Savior’s Evangelical Lutheran Church of the German-Swedish parish. Nowadays, the building of Kirkha (church) hosts the Organ Concert Hall.
   TheKhunisavankArmenian monastery dating back to the 9th century was located in the village of Komintern, Kedabek region, on the left bank of Getabek river. In 1895, Bishop M.
   Barkhudaryants wrote in his bookArtsakh:“The monastery stands east from Nor Getabek, on the left river bank neighboring a Tatar-populated village of Mollalu. The small monastery has a splendid structure, but today it is desolate”.462 Today, the monastery is virtually destroyed.
   The St. Stepanos Church was founded in the village of Pip, Dashkasan region in 1849,mostly by donations from Stepan Mirimanyants, a resident of Tiflis and local residents. The western wall of the church bears an inscription in memory of its founder. The latest reconstruction of the church dates back to 1862. In 1928, it was closed down.463 Today, the church is almost ruined.
   The Holy Translators’ Monastery of the 4th century, south from the city of Dashkasanwas founded by Saints Mesrop Mashtots and Sahak Partev. The monastery was reconstructed first in 989 and then in 1845. It is known that bishop Eprem was the prior of the monastery in 1772. The monastery reached the peak of its prosperity under Bishop Gabriel Harutyunyan Teryants. The next flourishing period covered the time under Archimandrite Stepanos Balyants in the 1830s. As of today, the monastery has been demolished.464

   Numerous churches and Armenian cemeteries were destroyed in various regions.

   Dashkasan region
   In 1987, a church 8 km south from the village Banants (9-11th centuries) was bulldozed and dumped into the gorge; the bridgeNerki Andi(12th century) was blown up“for construction of a railway”; a church and cemetery in the village of Khachbulag (17-18th centuries) was completely destroyed in 1970; the church in the village of Kirants (12th century) was pulled down under the pretext of setting power-line supports; in 1970, all the tombstones –khachkars and tapanakars– of the cemetery near the village of Amrvar (13-15th centuries) were bulldozed and dumped into the river.

   Shamkhor region
   Dasno Karmir Yeghtsi Monastery in the village of Gyulambar (7th century) was pulled down in 1937; a monastery near the village of Barsum (10th century) was demolished in 1982;
   the Hreshtakapetats Church near the village of Garnaker (1816) was partially destroyed in 1986; the church of the village of Patishen (Badakend) (19th century) was dismantled for building materials.

   Khanlar region
   The Mrtsunis church of the Getashen village (17th century) is partially destroyed; the church and cemetery near the village of Murut (17th century) were completely demolished in the 1960s; the walls of the Yeghnasar monastery near the village of Ghetashen (17th century) were deliberately damaged.

   Shahumyan region
   The Mandur church and cemetery near the village of Kharkhaput (1252) were completely demolished; the church near the village Russkie Borisi (12-13th centuries) was razed to the ground; the church in the village of Verinshen (12th century) was razed to the ground, too as it“stood on the way where a railroad was intended to be laid”.

   St. Sargis Monastery 4 km west from the village of Dash Salakhli in the Qazakh region.465
   The monastery rose on the top of the mountain Surb Sargis and used to count among pilgrimage sites of the region. It was visited at Easter and on Sundays. According to archived documents and inscriptions on the wall of the monastery, its previous restoration was completed in 1851 by Yesai Nurinyants, an Armenian from Tiflis. Interestingly, some sources suggest that 736 believers made donations for the restoration totaling 2210 roubles and 23 copecks. As for the last restoration, it was carried out by Arzuman Khachaturovich Ter-Sarkisyants, a resident of the village Kot, Qazakh region. Today, the church is in ruins.

   The St. Vardan Church in the city of Qazakh was consecrated in 1901.According to some sources, today, the church is used as a coffee shop.466 The other church in the city, a Russian church, is used as a sports facility. The church was looted during the Armenians pogroms of 1905–1906. It is known that in 1907–1912, the Armenians of Qazakh expressed their desire to restore the fence of the church. Later, the church was raided by Tatars in 1918.

   Ganja (Gandzak):
   The church Surb Astvatsatsin (The Holy Mother of God) dating to the 18th century was turned into a club; the church Surb Astvatsatsin Cholaga (The Holy Mother of God) dated 8-10th centuries was pulled down; the church Surb Gevorg of the 19th century was demolished; the church Surb Grigor Lusavorish (Zham) dating to 1869 was pulled down; the church Surb Kirakos dating to 1913 was pulled down; the church Surb Sargis (17-18th centuries) was turned into a museum.
   In Azerbaijan, all the restoration works of Armenian monuments sought to completely erase any Armenian inscriptions and any traces of the Armenian architecture. Under the Soviet regime, no Armenian architectural monuments were restored (or at least categorized) in either Nagorno-Karabakh, or on the entire territory of Azerbaijan. This fact may by no means purport to reflect the religious intolerance and oppression of the communists, since all sparse monuments of Islamic culture (incidentally, all of them dated back to no earlier than the 18th century) on the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh were fully restored.
   The period of the Azerbaijani administration of Nagorno-Karabakh and the years of Azerbaijan’s armed aggression against the Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh saw the destruction, blasting and complete demolition of 167 churches, 8 monastery complexes, 123 Armenian historical cemeteries and 47 settlements. Over 2,500 khachkars (cross-stone memorials) of high artistic merit and over 10,000 tombstones with epigraphs were dismantled for building material. 13 historical and archaeological sites were bulldozed to the ground. Monuments in the caves of Tsakhach, Mets Taghlar and Azokh were blown up. The khachkars, tombstones, churches and fortress walls (5-8th centuries) in the settlements of Mokhrablur, Sarashen, Aknaberd and Manadzor were ruined. Most of the wall of the unique fortress Mayraberd (16-17th centuries) was pulled down.467
   The above examples are, regrettably, incomplete, but are illustrative of the terror tactics employed against the Armenian cultural heritage in the region aiming to completely erase any vestiges of their historical presence on the territory of today’s Azerbaijan.
   15. Mythologization of «genocides»
   The psychological warfare frequently includes the use of myths.
   The mythis the information which accounts for the origins and further development of various phenomena based on real or fictitious events or facts, with subsequent exaggeration of distortion of the cause and effect relations.
   The human perception of the surrounding reality through myths is based on beliefs and opinions held by representatives of a specific culture, ethnic or social group rather than scientific knowledge.468
   People usually resort to social myths, which are warped notions of the reality deliberately inculcated in the public mind to shape the required social responses. The most singular element about social myths is that the bulk of the society views them as a natural state of affairs rather than pieces of fiction. As a rule, under the impact of social myths, the history of origin and development of states and ethnic groups becomes distorted to such extent that its impartial analysis is possible only through critical juxtaposition of various sources.
   Specialists consider that myths have the capacity to:
   • affect simultaneously the intellectual and emotional aspects of the human consciousness. This makes people believe in the reality of the mythical content;
   • turn a hyperbolic depiction of an individual case into an ideal model of the desired line of conduct. It is thanks to this peculiarity that the content of myths can affect the human conduct;
   • rely on a specific tradition existing in the society.

   Myths are an efficient tool for manipulating the consciousness. A myth taken alone has little meaning. However, when inculcated and deeply ingrained in the minds of the people, a myth can substitute (provided certain conditions are met) the reality for a long time. As a result, the recipient perceives the reality in line with how the myth is interpreted and therefore acts based on such perception. The convenience of the myth resides in its capacity to simplify the reality relieving the recipient of any need for intense (and frequently painful) thinking to comprehend the surrounding world.469
   In the Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, genocide means“any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such:470
   (a) Killing members of the group;
   (b) Causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group;
   (c) Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part;
   (d) Imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group;
   (e) Forcibly transferring children of the group to another group”.

   March 26, 1998 marked the official starting point for mythologization of the“Azerbaijani genocide” as the Azerbaijani ex-president Heydar Aliyev officially instituted the ‘day of genocide of the Azerbaijanis’.
   On March 27, 2003, Aliyev, Sr. stated in his speech:
   The massive settlement of Armenians on our historical lands after the division of Azerbaijan between Russia and Iran, the massacre of Azerbaijanis perpetrated by Armenian Dashnaks in 1905 and 1918, handing over Zangezur to Armenians in the 1920s, the creation of an Armenian autonomy on the territory of Karabakh, the deportation of our compatriots from Armenia in 1948–1953… new territorial claims of Armenia to Azerbaijan in the late 1980s – all led to a full-scale war, occupation of 20 percent of Azerbaijani lands by the Armenian armed groups and made about 1 million of our compatriots refugees and internally displaced persons.471
   The“genocide of 1905 in Baku”, the “genocide of 1918 in Baku and Guba”, the “genocide of 1988–1990” and the “genocide of Khojaly” are the four major “genocides” intensely trumpeted by the Azerbaijani propaganda. There are also other secondary and minor “genocides”: purported to have been perpetrated in Zangezur, Karabakh, Shemakh, Kyurdamir, Salyan, Lankoran, Kafan, Gugark, Sisian, Agdaban, Baghanis-Ayrum, Masis, etc.472
   The geography of the Azerbaijani genocides is quite extensive, with matching time frames. Only one thing remains without change: perpetrators and organizers. This role is traditionally reserved for Armenians. Let us examine the psychological prerequisite for the mythologization of“Azerbaijani genocides”.
   The scholar Yuri Lotman in his article on semiotics and typology of the culture notes that each culture creates a mythologized image as its ideal self-portrait.473 In his turn, W. Wundt notes that the language, myths and customs represent common spiritual phenomena so closely fused together that one is unthinkable without the other.&lt;…&gt; The customs express through deeds the same views on life that rest on myths and become public through language. These deeds in their turn further enhance and elaborate the perceptions that they stem from.474
   It must be pointed out that the mythologization of genocides is a cultural product of today’s Azerbaijani society and is a manifestation of latent aggression.
   “Aggression is the consequence of such conduct that has for objective as its targeted response the infliction of a damage to the person it is aimed against. The aggression may not always be exhibited openly; it can manifest itself through fantasizing, dreaming or even through a thoroughly deliberated retaliation plan; it can be directed against the purported cause of frustration, be redirected against a completely innocent target or even own self”.475
   Besides, another psychological phenomenon can be at play here termed‘mirroring’ and amounting to reproduction with varying degrees of adequacy the traits, structural characteristics and relations of other objects. This comes to say that in this case, the historical fact of the Armenian Genocide called for an “Azerbaijani genocide of their own” to match Armenians.
   The head of the Assistance to Development of Public Relations NGO, Shelale Hasanova in her interview to the Day.az information agency pointed out the mainstays of the Azerbaijani propaganda:“We suffered through four genocides in a single century and we remained unbroken; we survived and we gained independence and we now become integrated into the world community. This is what we must speak and write about not only on the Genocide Memorial Day but during the history classes in schools, at international conferences and during various political actions. I shall remind you these four genocides: the genocide of Azerbaijanis in 1905–1907 in Western Azerbaijan476 and in Baku, the genocide of 1918–1920 perpetrated by Dashnaks in Armenia and Azerbaijan, the genocide of 1988 when militant nationalists of the Soviet Armenia banished Azerbaijanis from the lands of Oghuz Turks by torturing and burning them alive. And finally, the forth genocide was perpetrated by Armenian armed bands in Khojaly”.477
   This anti-Armenian propaganda campaign enlists the assistance of all political and civil institutes. For instance, Elmira Suleymanova, the Azerbaijani Ombudsman, stated that“as a result of a deliberate genocidal policy, ethnic cleansings and deportations perpetrated by Armenians and their supporters against Azerbaijanis over the past two centuries, our people had to endure dreadful ordeals… A total of some 700 thousands of our compatriots were killed”.478
   There is no need to dwell in detail on every single attempt at falsification of historic events of the region by the Azerbaijani propaganda. It will suffice to focus on the two most circulated examples, that of Guba and Khojaly.

   “The genocide of Guba”
   In 2007, during drilling works for the renovation of a stadium in Guba, a mass grave of unknown origin was found on the site of a trash dump. Only 35 human skeletons could be lifted to the surface in their entirety. To this day, no result of any archaeological research or expert appraisal on the origin of these remains has been published. Also, no concomitant evidence has been made available.
   Meanwhile, on December 30, 2009, the president Ilham Aliyev issued a decree on creation of a“genocide memorial complex” in Guba. Depending on the interests currently at stake, the remains are attributed to Jews or Lezgins or simply Muslims. However, Armenians are invariably cast in the role of the perpetrators.
   The text of the decree reads as follows:
   At the outset of the past century, as a result of a policy of mass ethnic cleansings and aggression perpetrated by armed bands of Armenian Dashnaks on Azerbaijani lands– in Baku, Guba, Karabakh, Shemakh, Kyurdamir, Salyan, Lankaran and other regions, tens of thousands of innocent Azerbaijanis were killed; one of the most tragic genocidal acts of the 20th century was committed against our people. In April-May 1918, in the Guba uyezd only, 122 villages were completely destroyed. The mass grave in the city of Guba revealed that as a result of the genocide, along Azerbaijanis slain with boundless ferocity and extreme cruelty, thousands of Lezgins, Jews, Tats and representatives of other national minorities were exposed to violence.479
   What did really happen in Guba? Immediately upon the discovery of the grave in Guba, the speaker of the Azerbaijani parliament Oktay commissioned the director of the History Institute, member of the parliament, Yagub Mahmudov to retain foreign anthropologists and compile an official document“on the mass killing of Azerbaijanis by Armenians at the outset of the past century”. However, foreign experts never showed up in Guba, and the remains discovered there were not given any independent appraisal at least to determine their temporal dimension.480
   The late president of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan, Mahmud Kerimov, did not exclude that the remains of Guba might both stem from a mass killing and a mass epidemic.481 Meanwhile, Gahraman Agayev, the head of the expedition mounted by the Institute of Archeology and Ethnography of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan, stated in relation to the discovery of about 200 skulls:“The researchers concluded that the grave is a result of a genocide perpetrated by Armenians in Guba. A phantom letter by Stepan Shahumyan addressed to Hamazasp which has never been published by the Azerbaijani side is quoted by Agayev as a “compelling” piece of evidence.
   Agayev’s claim that the time of the death was accurately established (“The massacre occurred between May 3 and 10”) is equally preposterous. The same can be said about his assertion that “it has been established based on anthropological investigation of skulls that apart from Azerbaijanis, Jews and Lezgins suffered physical extermination in 1918”. Agayev also passed over in silence the revolutionary method that must have been contrived by the Azerbaijani scientists for unraveling the precise ethnicity of the remains.
   Yet, his colleague, Maisa Rahimova, the director of the Institute of Archeology and Ethnography of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan, seems to be in the same boat as she claims that“anthropological research confirmed that these people were Muslims”482 Notice must be taken of the fact that a participant of the same expedition, Asker Aliyev, Candidate of Historical Sciences, clearly states:“Only 35 skeletons could be identified from among a multitude of skulls and children’s bones. No hair, vestiges of clothes or objects were found in the wells”. This means that any assertion about the religious affiliation of the persons, whose remains were found, is not only unprofessional but downright fatuous.
   In January 2012, professor Levon Yepiskoposyan, Doctor of Biology, addressed a letter to the president of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan, academician Mahmud Kerimov offering to carry out a qualified international expert appraisal of the human remains found in Guba in order to discover scientifically the truth about the mass graves of Guba. In February 2010, the professor came up with another proposal to allow Armenian specialists to take part in a joint anthropological and genetic expert examination of the remains found in Guba; however, his letter remained unanswered.483
   Meanwhile, Hayk Demoyan, the director of the Armenian Genocide Museum-Institute, notes that there are archive materials proving that the Armenian population of Guba was exposed to violence from the local Tatar bands in 1918, and the number of Armenian victims corresponds to the number of skeletons found at the burial site.
   Here is one such testimony. In the late April 1918, Gelovani, the commissar of the city and the region of Guba, sent a telegram to Korganov, the chairman of the Military Revolutionary Committee, containing the following:“Today, on April 24, I released 115 Armenians who were jailed in the prison of Guba. They all were divested of their property. I took measures to have their property restituted. They are asking for financial assistance from the Armenian National Counsel. Please, send it to my address as soon as possible. The pecuniary situation is critical… apart from the city of Guba, Armenians are held captive also in other places. I am taking measures towards their liberation”.484
   It is of note that the same testimony is confirmed in the series published on theDay.azwebsite under the headingHistorical Prism: 1918: how the mass killing in Guba was carried out”.The article says that a member of the Ganja District Court, Andrey Novatski, who came to Guba to investigate the events of April-May 1918, addressed an inquiry to the head of the municipality Ali Abbas Alibekov to clarify the situation in Guba in the period concerned. In his response dated December 12, Alibekov wrote that Guba had a population of about 20 thousand, of which some 500 were Armenians whose residences were scattered in different parts of the town.
   “According to the evidence collected by A. Novatski commission, in April 1918, as the power in Baku was in the hands of Bolsheviks, David Gelovani, representative of the Bolshevik party, arrived in Guba with an international detachment of 187 armed soldiers and set about forming a Bolshevik administration in the town. However, the first attempt was not successful. Nine days after, armed Lezgins from the neighboring settlements managed to chase away the firstteamof Bolsheviks from the town after three days of fierce fighting. Both sides sustained casualties: 200 Lezgins and another 70 non-combatants were killed,” says the publication.485
   It is probable that the 200 people killed in the clashes between the population of Guba and the international detachments of Bolsheviks were buried in the accidentally discovered ditch pits. These can be just as well Armenians who were killed in the clashes. However, nothing can be unequivocally asserted without an international scientific expert appraisal.
   Thus, the Azerbaijani side, without any scientific expert appraisal, designates the ethnicity and the religious affiliation of the persons whose remains were found as well as pinpoints precise dates of the killings. Why to this day, the local population was not aware of a mass grave of their relatives whose burial site was on a trash dump? What was the method, unknown to the modern science, employed by the Azerbaijani specialists to determine that the discovered skulls belonged to Azerbaijanis, Lezgins, Mountain Jews or Tats? Was there any concomitant evidence discovered that could provide an exhaustive answer to questions of chronology and ethnicity of the persons whose remains were found?
   And finally, what is the historical document that reliably reports a burial site of“Azerbaijanis brutally murdered by Armenians” in Guba? All these questions from the Armenian side remained unanswered.

   “The genocide of Khojaly”
   According to the Azerbaijani version, it is a“genocide perpetrated by Armenian Armed Forces with participation of the 366th Motor Rifle Regiment on the night of February 25–26, 1992 against ethnic Azerbaijanis during the seizure of the town of Khojaly”. However, the reality is that on February 26th 1992, during the hostilities at the approaches to the Azerbaijani-controlled city of Aghdam, under obscure circumstances, between 200 and 300 persons were killed, according to the international advocacy organizationHuman Right Watch(600 persons, according to the version of the Azerbaijani propaganda), who were deliberately held in the thick of the fighting by the Azerbaijani authorities. Notwitshtanding insistent warnings from the Armenian side, the population of Khojaly, being one of the five weapon emplacements bombarding the blockaded Stepanakert, was forcibly held there and willfully not evacuated for months by the Azerbaijani authorities to be subsequently used as a human shield.
   The residents of Khojaly who left the settlement through the humanitarian corridor opened by the Self-Defense Forces of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic enjoyed unhindered passage of over 10 kilometers and reached the Azerbaijani-controlled city of Agdam. Later, in the immediate vicinity of the Azerbaijani lines, bodies of the dead residents of the settlement were found. The exact number of the killed remains unknown as the official Baku keeps publishing self-contradictory figures. The Parliamentary Commission of Azerbaijan assigned to investigate the tragic demise of the civilians near Aghdam was disbanded on Heydar Aliyev’s orders, and all evidence was classified.
   More details about the Aghdam events can be found onwww.Xосаli.netor by watching the documentaryBetween Hunger and Fire: Power at the expense of lives.486
   However, the Azerbaijani side would not stop there. After counting some 20 Azerbaijani genocides at the hands of Armenians in Azerbaijan, Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, the Azerbaijani propaganda decided to expand the geography of their“genocides”.
   In autumn 2012, during the construction of a school in the Iranian city of Urmia an unidentified burial site was discovered.487“The mass grave discovered during the excavations in the city of Urmia in Iranian province of Western Azerbaijan488 may not be destroyed. It must be preserved and protected as a proof of genocide against Azerbaijanis,” stated Professor Govhar Bakhshaliyeva, Member of the Parliament and director of the Institute of Oriental Studies after Z. Bunyadov of the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences. According to her, “Iran’s wish to wipe out the grave is an indication of a policy and unjust position in respect of the Azerbaijani people from some chauvinists and paniranists to a single end of aiding Armenians”.489
   Bakhshaliyeva asserted that“on the territory of today’s province of Western Azerbaijan, presently a part of Iran, Armenian and Assyrian armed bands perpetrated a monstrous genocide against Azerbaijanis in 1918”. Bakhshaliyeva even announced that an international conference on “the Azerbaijani genocide in Iran” would be held in the following year in Baku.490
   Her colleague, Musa Guliyev, the deputy chairman of the Social Policy Committee of the Azerbaijani parliament, went even further and declared that“it is possible that together with Azerbaijanis, Persians, Kurds and representatives of other nations perished because actually they were killed because of their devotion to Islam”.491
   The position of the official Baku on the subject was voiced by Ali Ahmedov, the executive secretary of the ruling partyYeni Azerbaijan:“I condemn the destruction of the burial site in Iran which testified to genocide against Azerbaijanis,” stated Ahmedov.492
   The reaction from the Iranian side came quick and harsh.“By distorting the history and exploiting ethnic problems, Azerbaijan seeks its own benefit,” stated the Organization for Cultural Heritage of the Iranian province of Western Atrpatakan (Western Azerbaijan). The Organization also noted that groundless claims made by Musa Guliyev, the deputy chairman of the social policy committee of the Azerbaijani parliament were false as research had revealed that the burial site discovered during the renovation works of the historical school in Urmia relates to the events of the World War I when the Ottoman Empire, Russia and England launched an assault to seize north-western regions of Iran leading to a massacre of about 9 million Iranians”.493
   This story was rounded off by Mohsen Pak Ayeen, the Iranian ambassador in Azerbaijan, who stated in his interview toSalamNewsagency that a law was passed in Iran prescribing that construction works could be authorized at the burial sites dating over 100 years. He confirmed the information that human remains had been found during the construction of a school in Urmia.“Some believe that these are remains of Muslims killed by Armenians. However, there is no evidence to this effect,” stated the Iranian ambassador.494
   16. Women’s role in shaping armenophobia
   Due to social and cultural peculiarities, women as mothers, educators and teachers play the main role in the process of educating generations.
   In the Azerbaijani society, women have historically been the repositories of traditions who continue to cultivate values in daily and family life (but then, such picture is characteristic of all Oriental countries). The educational level, spiritual and moral potential of women as well as their educational effort determine in many respects what the future community members will look like. The shaping of the person in line with the moral code, culture, world view and code of conduct is influenced in the first place by women.
   The role of the mother holds a special place in this context. The relationships between the mother and her child have a fundamental significance for human interaction. Understanding the notions of security, freedom and self-appraisal depends on how the relationship between the mother or the person acting in her lieu evolved or will evolve with their children. It is the female and maternal figure that lays the groundwork for the first attitudes, value benchmarks, preservation of traditions and their development.
   In the modern world, with a wider range of duties the role of a woman extended beyond the family to cover virtually all aspects of the child’s life. As a matter of fact, children, irrespective of their sex, obtain the lion’s share of information, attitudes, stereotypes, prejudices and images through women: mothers, kindergarteners and teachers. The information is communicated to children through books read out to them, fairy tales narrated to them and songs sung to them.
   In this context, the role of the woman in the society and in intersocial links can be defined as theforefrontthat allows envisaging the future prospects of this society as well as ideological and moral makeup of its future generations.
   Akif Melikov, director of Azerbaijan State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater, Meritorious Worker of Arts: I admire the beauty and wisdom of Azerbaijani women. The Azerbaijani women are simultaneously caring mothers, devoted wives, obedient daughters as well as loved and loving sisters. The outer beauty of the Azerbaijani women is in full harmony with their internal beauty.495
   The Nagorno-Karabakh conflict made its adjustments in the world view and the set of values of the Azerbaijani society. The fervent zealotry and yearning to partake“in the struggle against Armenians” soared among women. More importantly, these feelings are directed against an ethnic group rather than citizens of Armenia or those who are personally responsible for purported or real human suffering.
   I’d rather go to war than wait for another 20 years,” said Shafag Ismailova (34), a sniper courses trainee and refugee. “War is bad for all. But sometimes the situation demands it”.496
   Inasmuch as the female role was historically confined to home and family, with women shielded from having to resolve vital issues and rarely facing the cruelty of the outside world, it is generally assumed that the woman is the embodiment of the mercy and compassion. However, at the turn of the 20th century, the stereotypes prevalent in Azerbaijan remain the same, while the philosophy of the modern Azerbaijani woman has changed.
   However, at the turn of the 20th century, the stereotypes prevalent in Azerbaijan remain the same, while the philosophy of the modern Azerbaijani woman has changed.Mahira Abdulanin:Let’s march on Karabakh…I must cut out the eyes of the enemy,Pull out his tongue and flay him alive.In the ancestral lands of lions, jackals became            masters,Let’s march on Karabakh…Hoist this flag, hoist!Release this owl form the pinnacle!The enemy is leeching us and thirsts for our bloodAnnihilate Armenians, annihilate!Go and plant our tricolor flag!497
   Overall, the inculcation of xenophobia dispensed from the lips of women follows a classic scenario added to the armory of the official ideology, the only difference being that its female version is more emotional in character and stands at the outset of the nascent personality.
   Eluja AtaliExplanation for the little Fidan:All of a sudden, little Fidan asked:…-Then, why do we call them (Armenians) ‘mundar’ (dirty, vile)? Her age of 4 years prevented me from gathering my thoughts and giving an accurate answer. Considering her age, I picked my words carefully and said:
   – Look, my little one, when a person has a vile and filthy heart, this propagates all over the body through the blood. And no matter how much they wash their hands and face, they cannot get clean. You can’t wash away just any dirt with water.498
   For the mother,“picking the words carefully” means a choice of terms and phrases understandable for a 4-year-old child rather than the semantic content of the answer to her question. It is important for the author that the girl learns a lifetime lesson that “Armenians are vile and filthy”.
   Women exert impact on future generations through laying the groundwork for the child’s socialization and social adaptation.
   Socializationis the process of learning the social roles, cultural adaptation and acquiring the skills of social interaction. This is the process of entering the society by an individual through acquired social experience, meeting social expectations, following norms and values which are in demand for a successful life in the given society.
   It is in the process of socialization that personal traits, knowledge and skills formulate enabling the individual to partake in social relationships. Socialization occurs as the individual becomes spontaneously influenced by various life circumstances as well as through deliberate shaping of the individual makeup.
   The spontaneous socializationcovers companies of children and teenagers, the impact of various prejudiced opinions, old customs and traditions.499 The depictions of children’s games by female Azerbaijani writers Umm-El-Banine and Shabnam Kheyrulla in the early 20th and in the early 21st centuries respectively provide illustrative examples of the spontaneous socialization.
   Umm-El-Banine:On holidays, we played our favorite game– the Armenian massacre. Inflamed with racism, we lost our heads and sacrificed Tamara to our enmity and hatred inherited from our ancestors. First, we hurled at her unfounded accusations of killing Tatars and relished in several rounds of executing her by shooting. We feasted our eyes upon the sight of her blood and then resurrected her again to kill her by conventional means: we bound her hands and feet together, threw her on the ground, first cut her tongue and then severed her head; to show our hatred to her Armenian body, we carved out her heart and internal organs and threw them to the dogs. After our wild rampage subsided, and there was nothing left of the poor girl’s body, we started dancing around her body waiving our wooden swords as savages. If anyone passed by, we immediately helped Tamara to her feet and with our tongues dry from fear, grabbed her hand and whirled around the garden singing children’s songs. She never dreamed of making any complaintsagainst us because we would have called her a snitch, a traitor and dirty Armenian; besides, she would lose our company. No matter how much we insulted, humiliated and permanently killed her, she couldn’t live without our friendship.500
   Shabnam Kheyrulla:One of these days, I witnessed how the kids from our neighborhood played tag in the street. I was so fascinated with the children’s game that I decided to watch. A girl of five or six, her brother one year younger and other children of about the same age were crying noisily and merrily to decide who was to run and who was to chase. After long bickering, they finally decided to assign roles using a counting-out rhyme. I wasabout to walk on, but this counting-out rhyme pronounced by the little girl drew my attention because of its unique and original character. It is actually the reason why I set about telling you this story:Vay-vay, it’s cold,Armenians are chickens,Wherever you see an Armenian,Put the bullet through his brain.
   These words brought an involuntary smile to my lips. At the same time, it made me wonder: can it be really true that at this early age our children already understand who Armenians are, who the enemy is, and hate them? The thought was comforting, but I was still incredulous.501
   Spontaneous impact may include one-time, non-recurrent emotional publications in the press, single watching of a video, etc. They have a much weaker acceleration effect, but may exert dramatic impact, especially if they can shock the child.
   Deliberate socialization:this category covers special institutes of socialization, such as nurseries, kindergartens, schools (with mandatory secondary education), vocational schools, technical schools and universities. This list can be supplemented by all kinds of public organizations.“All of these serve a single goal: align a young individual to the ideal personal standard established by all societies. To a lesser or greater extent, it is always a forcible process”502
   The sociologist names five principle ways of how an individual reacts to deliberate socialization: submission, renewal of environment, ritualism, escapism, and creative revolt.
   Later, I asked the 4-year-old son of my elder sister a question:
   – Who is an Armenian?
   – A terrorist.
   – Who is a terrorist?
   – They kill children.
   Then he came dragging a huge book entitled The Armenian Terror probably thinking that it would be easier to explain if he showed me some photographs.
   – All these children were killed by Armenians, he said, it’s even on You Tube!
   – How do you know all this?
   – Grandma told me…503
   A 5-year-old girl at school:A daughter of my friends gets ready for school and has begun attending a nursery class. After she came home today, she told her mother what they had been taught at school. The teacher gave them their third lesson.
   – Armenians made us unhappy and miserable. Remember this, children. Who are our enemies? Right, Armenians. Learn this well, I will surely ask you about it during the next lesson. Armenians slaughtered our ancestors, completed her speech the 20-year-old teacher.
   The girl’s mother was left dumbfounded as she was told this. I also think that this is a sad thing to happen: a 20-year old young teacher and the brain of a 5-year-old baby. Why do you need to hammer this into the head of a 5-year-old girl?
   The implication of Azerbaijani schools into the state propaganda presents the perilous prospect of fostering a generation of vengeance brought up exclusively on feelings of malice and hatred, with a traumatized mind.
   In 1990s, we heard rumors that Armenians whispered into the ears of their newborn children: Turks are your enemies. I don’t know if the rumor was true, but back then it made many of us feel sorry for Armenians. But as we can see, over time people increasingly resemble their enemies.
   Imagine that! Telling a 5-year-old child:“Armenians made us unhappy and miserable!504
   In the new Azerbaijani society with its warped set of values, children are brought up in line with the new patriotic philosophy translated into the maxim:“If you love your motherland, hate Armenians”.
   The groundwork for socialization is laid in early childhood starting from the moment of forging relationships with peers, developing the perception and sense of self.
   Sevinj Parvana,A Conversation in Passing:
   (a rhymed story in the form of a dialog for children aged 5-12)
   – Don’t cry, my little daughter. Let Armenian infants cry.
   – Mummy, and where are Armenian infants?
   – On the very bottom of hell.
   – Why to let them cry? Shouldn’t we pity them?
   – No, no pity. Let the snake bite them, if I lie.
   – The infants???
   …
   – Mother, I want to play with Armenian children, ha…
   …
   – No, no… I want to play with Armenian children
   – No, you can’t, my little daughter. They are far from us.
   – How far? In the hell?
   – Yes, in the hell.
   …
   – Where are the children themselves? Mother, can I play with them?
   – No, my little daughter. They are bad children. We can’t go to them. They will take your toys away and break them.
   – Why is that? Don’t they have their own toys?
   – They do, but they will want your toys. That’s why they are so bad.
   – I will give my toys to them to play. They will give them back later.
   – They won’t give them back. They won’t want to. They never give back what they’ve taken.
   – Then, I will not give them.
   Baku, 2009505
   The socialization encompasses the process of indoctrinating mindsets, precepts and dictates setting up a lifetime program.
   G. Ibragimova: I’ll tell my son the whole truth without holding anything back. I’ll tell him: “Son, learn to distinguish good from bad. And remember that every nation has both good and bad people; Armenians are the only nation which doesn’t have good people, or there are too few of them. The great poet A. S. Pushkin venerated worldwide used the obscene word ‘Armenian’ whenever he disliked the person!”
   And my main third covenant is the following:
   “My son, listen and remember, Armenians are our deadly enemies. Don’t leave your enemy unavenged! If you meet an Armenian even in the most civilized country of the world, treat him as a creature that sucked the blood of your people! Never forgive the enemy! If you forgive, then let the bread ofyour motherland, your father’s blood and your mother’s milk be cursed!!!”.506
   It is amazing how the author of these lines genuinely believes herself to be a conscientious and tolerant person.
   &lt;…&gt; You call me chauvinist and accuse me of insulting the entire Armenian nation. A writer accusing an entire nation would just belittle himself/herself. A conscientious person would never venture to accuse an entire nation. All I do in my writings is to exhort the children of my people to be vigilant and to keep away from Armenians.507
   The next stage of building armenophobia in Azerbaijan targets the young people and hinges on natural fears already inculcated in childhood. The main message goes along these lines:“Armenians take our places”, “they bewitch our men”, “Armenians are deformed and depraved”. In other words, this represents a classical form of demonization and dehumanization of Armenians.
   Chinara Vugar:The mother who had financed Armenians in her time was now marrying off her daughter, but burst into tears in apprehension:“Heaven save us, if the fiancé finds out about it”.&lt;…&gt; I was horrified and wondered how many are those in Azerbaijan, whose manly blood mix with that that of dogs508&lt;…&gt; Ramil Safarov axed an Armenian officer.509 In the beginning, the people supported him, but then they forgot about him. When Eynulla Fatullayev510 was in prison, there were more people grieving at him than at Ramil Safarov who had killed the Armenian serf.&lt;…&gt; So, for example, the entire property of the former mayor of Baku Rafael Allahverdiyev went to an Armenian woman, and what is left of it will go to a daughter he sired with her, right?&lt;…&gt; The school subject of the Azerbaijani Language and Literature is taught by 2 teachers of Armenian descent. They say that the headmaster of the aforesaid school is also of Armenian origin, and although newspapers and the Internet contain reports of this, we can’t do anything about it. In fact, we only know that the school is being destroyed because of the headmaster’s position. Many massage parlors located near the subway station May 28 are owned by mistresses of Armenian origin. These Armenian women pull the Azerbaijani girls into depravity.&lt;…&gt; There is much talk about Armenian women. The daughter of an Armenian senator leads a dissolute life. The daughter of the Armenian singer Sher changed her gender, but that’s not all. Armenians who live in Azerbaijan undergo plastic operations on their noses. Plastic surgeons excise the Armenian noses and turn them into Muslims. Also, the Armenian Constitution does not prohibit prostitution. In fact, the women of this nation are prostitutes, while the men are just “good-looking”.
   A special structure must be created within the Ministry of National Security to scrutinize the population for the presence of Armenian blood. For instance, the parents who want to marry their children should be able to file an inquiry with this structure to find out if their future in-laws are related to Armenians by blood. Maybe then we will be able to cleanse our blood from its mixing with the filthy Armenian blood.511
   The statement of the people’s artist of Azerbaijan and Armenia, singer Zeynab Khanlarova in her commentary of the ethnically motivated gruesome murder by Ramil Safarov512 is a glaring example of dehumanization, i.e. unabashed expression of contempt and readiness to back and commit atrocities.
   “He (Ramil Safarov) is a hero of not only Azerbaijan but the entire world. Monuments must be erected in his honor. Not every man is capable of accomplishing what he did. There are 2 heroes: one is Mr. Ilham Aliyev, and the other is Ramil Safarov. If I were in Ramil’s place, I would do the same.He took an Armenian’s life and rightfully did so”.513
   Along all of the above, the woman’s status of a mother and a respected community member is used to marginalize all interaction with Armenians.
   Nazperi Dosteliyeva, people’s artist of Azerbaijan: I can’t bring myself to call Azerbaijanis those who are in friendly correspondence with enemies who don’t know the meaning of humaneness. I don’t know who they are. But as a citizen of my country, as a mother and most importantly as a People’s Artist of Azerbaijan, I won’t forgive these people.514
   Khalida Bayramova, chairman of the Commission for the Protection of Minors and Juvenile Cases of the Sabail District of Baku: Maybe, for our future piece, we must take some steps, but I’m against friendship with Armenians, because the one who betrayed once, will never become a friend, and must be clearly marked as an enemy. It is impossible to forget what Armenians did in Azerbaijan, and they, in their turn, have nothing but hostile feelings towards us. There is a notion of pathological hatred, and it seems that it is exactly the kind of hatred I feel for Armenians. For an Azerbaijani or a Turk, there can be no good Armenian. It may be wrong, but that’s what I think!515
   The capacity to feel kindness and empathy, love or hatred, calm or aggression as well as many other personal traits are instilled in an individual during childhood and remain ingrained for a lifetime. In other words, the state armenophobic policy and propaganda are planted into a fertile soil tilled by armenophobia and dating back to the years of childhood.
   Shirin Kerimbeyli, Ahriman516 of the GlobeHey, Armenian, hey, cutthroat,Devil, shaitan, tell me who are you?The Ahriman of the globeHey, perfidious provocateur,Hangman and criminal,Isn’t the blood you spilt enough?Isn’t the massacre over?517
   17. Azerichild.info
   Children acquire behavioral stereotypes in the early years of their lives, i.e. the sense of affiliation to an ethnic group is not innate but is gained through socialization.518
   The shaping of the national identity conventionally occurs in three stages.
   1) At the age of 6–7, a child gains his/her first knowledge, albeit fragmentary and unsystematic, of his/her ethnic affiliation. At this stage, the child’s family and immediate social environment have the utmost significance for the child rather than his/her country and ethnic group.
   2) At the age of 8–9, a child already clearly identifies himself/herself with his/her state, can recognize the fundamentals of such identification (the nationality of his/her parents, the place of residence and the mother tongue); dormant national feelings surface.
   3) At the age of 10–11, the national identity is fully shaped, the child knows the peculiarities of various peoples and can designate the uniqueness of their history, the specific character of their daily life, including their ethnic culture.

   Over the course of his/her life any person acquires a multitude of stereotypes about other ethnic groups, nations and peoples. In the event of children, the shaping of stereotypes bears the impact of the older generation and parents as detailed in the foregoing chapter.
   This fertile soil iscementedby the state propaganda at the next stage. Over time, ethnic stereotypes become so perpetuated in the mind of a child that it is extremely hard to abandon them even if there is a wish to do so and an awareness of the problem. In the events where the reference groups continue to exert pressure on the individual by planting these stereotypes, it becomes virtually impossible to get rid of them.
   The individual may be under the impression that his/her views of any given ethnic group represent a personal opinion where in fact, he/she re-circulates the opinion of his/her reputed reference group (ethnic group, people). The ethnic stereotypes mostly manifest themselves on subconscious level; however, they can imperceptibly affect the self-awareness of the person. One such manifestation consists in perceiving information matching the ingrained mindset and confirming the stereotype, while rejecting everything else.
   The education is one of the most efficient ways of instilling the“image of the enemy” in the public mind. The teacher is an authority in the eyes of a pupil, while the information derived from books is perceived by the children as an indisputable truth and is instantaneously assimilated without any critical analysis. The statements of the teacher become evenmore convincing for the children if these are not at odds with their views and stereotypes imported to school from their families, television programs, fellow peers in the courtyard, etc.
   Thus, it can be claimed that children and teenagers represent the most vulnerable group most exposed to the anti-Armenian propaganda in Azerbaijan. Such state policy further exacerbates the ethno-religious, cultural and territorial conflict between the two nations.
   Numerous fairy tales and children’s drawings appearing on the website of Azerichild.info project which clearly reflect the image of the Armenian enemy and virtually always portray Armenians as negative characters give an example of a product of the armenophobic propaganda among the children of Azerbaijan. The main subject of thechildren’s drawings is the brutal killing of the Azerbaijani children and women by the Armenian military.
   Let us examine a specific example: the story entitledArmenian519 recognized by Azerbaijan’s Ministry of Youth and Sports as theStory of the Yearin 2008 and authored by Elkhan Zeynalli, member of the Union of Azerbaijani Writers contains 65 instances of negative depiction of Armenians manifested through the use of various clichés, such as: “blood-sucker”, “base”, “double-faced”, “kill all Armenian dogs”, “set all Armenian men on fire”, “rape all Armenian women”, “strangle the Armenian children”, “inhuman Armenians”, etc. Instead, all references to the Azerbaijanis are exclusively in the positive vein with 23 favorable epithets, such as: “forgiving”, “kind”, “respectful of parents”, “courageous”, “friendly”, “caring”, “tolerant”, etc.
   This story, which arouses hostility and contains unabashed armenophobic propaganda, is incorporated into Azerbaijan’s school curriculum for home reading.
   Overall, the study of about 50 literary works and 100 children’s drawings has revealed that the state indoctrination of the propaganda against Armenians occurs at an early age in Azerbaijan. Constantly recurring negative rhetoric can exert and impact even on adults, let alone on yet immature minds of children.
   It is of note that such propaganda of hatred and the emotive character of the communicated information reflect the covert fears of the Azerbaijani society, with the country’s domestic situation projected onto the Armenian society. In their turn, the aggressive exhortations and labeling help cope on the verbal level with psychological problems and the inferiority complex inherited from the time of Azerbaijan’s defeat in the Karabakh war.
   However, raising their children in the spirit of hatred, aggression and hostility, the authorities of Azerbaijan foster an individual who can become perilous for their own society, as in the absence of othertargetsfor venting his/her aggression such individual will take revenge on the weak: their wives/husbands, children, old people, etc. Alcohol, drugs and suicide can also become avent. In today’s Azerbaijan, all of these categories display a statistic spike.
   Another emblematic point is that the Armenians appear on the drawings as formidable warriors brandishing weapons. This means that the image of Armenians formed in the child’s mind portrays a powerful, united and militarized enemy eliciting, as a result, fear of this image. And if in peacetime this image of Armenians helps consolidate the Azerbaijani society, in wartime, the fear of the image can become a serious problem. The Azerbaijani authorities may not realize that such propaganda thwarts the society’s natural psychological development, generates socially dangerous individuals and reduces the combat efficiency of the army.
Mariam Hakhnazaryan,holder of a master’s degree from the Chair of Social Psychology of the Yerevan State University.
   18. Armenophobia in textbooks
   Atextbookis a book that systematically lays down fundamental knowledge in a specific domain at the current level of the scientific and cultural achievements and represents the main and leading type of academic literature.520
   A school textbook plays an important role in securing the personal and intellectual development of students. The ultimate mission of a textbook is to aid the shaping of a personal attitude of the student to the course of study.521
   The education underlies the raising of future generations and communication of accumulated ancestral knowledge. In the modern world, where the system of education is overall standardized and controlled by the state, its function consists not only in counteracting illiteracy, but also in instilling and indoctrinating the values and ideologies intrinsic to the society in question.
   In this context, the study of didactic materials gives an insight into the ideological constituent of the society and a rough forecast of its future.
   Following the attainment of independence, the Azerbaijani textbooks draw both domestic and international criticism. Most of the critical voices raised domestically refer to errors, typos, inaccurate translation, etc.
   Yana Madatova, journalist: Not only parents do sound the alarm, but also specialists in linguistics, pedagogues and independent experts. Thus, Aydin Aslanov, an associate professor at the Chair of Social Disciplines of the Baku Institute for Advanced Training and Retraining for Teachers, stated that the history textbooks for secondary schools in the Azerbaijani and Russian languages teemed with semantic, scientific and technical errors.&lt;…&gt; I could understand if this was limited to textbooks in Russian as today, the language, as it were, is no longer native. But after all, the textbooks in the Azerbaijani also contain colossal blunders!522
   Slava Sapunov, the editor-in-chief of the Boutique Travel magazine:Misprints, awkward bombast, clumsy style and sometimes unabashed misinformation.523
   Milana Zhuchkova, journalist:There have been many reports about the poor work of proofreaders in compiling the national textbooks; sometimes it is about a huge number of grammar errors, sometimes it is about missing words and sometimes it is about impossibility of solving a math problem because figures are misprinted. There are many other examples of malpractice in the work of educational professionals. The reputation of the domestic products has long been marred, with children laughing at the errors of intelligent adults, and it is very sad when schoolchildren think they have the right to consider themselves smarter than the specialists who have compiled the textbook. As I recently ploughed the social networks, I stumbled across a very interesting photograph from a page of a literature textbook for the 7th grade indicating the lifespan of L. N. Tolstoy as 1928–1910. The photograph sported a commentary: “Only in our textbooks, the great Russian writer died before he was born.524
   However, if blunders of grammar and style are acknowledged by the compilers (scholars, pedagogues, Ministry of Education) and can be corrected, the ideological constituent of the academic literature remains unchanged as testified by the authors themselves.
   The author of the History textbook for the 10th grade, which portrays Armenians as“the eternal enemies” of the Azerbaijanis, the department head of the History of Slavic Countries of the Baku State University, Tofik Veliyev acknowledges that he used “negative language” but in his opinion “it was necessary to tell the truth”. “These phrases give an accurate picture of Armenians”, thinks Veliyev.525
   It can be claimed that the educational process in Azerbaijan is made contingent on the ideology that cultivates armenophobia.
   Arif Yunusov, conflictologist, in his publication entitledThe myths and the images of the‘enemy’ in historical science and in the history textbooks of the independent Azerbaijannotes that“amid the Karabakh conflict, the schoolbooks in Azerbaijan had the mission of “breeding patriots who know how to distinguishfriendfromfoeand are prepared to take part in another conflict if need be”.526
   Arif Yunusov:The image of the‘enemy’ is formed starting from the textbook for the fifth grade, i.e. since the very first year of teaching the subject of history. It is true that it is still not a textbook on the history of Azerbaijan; it is called Fatherland (‘Ana yurdu’), but written in a very emotional way, especially pronounced in the description of Azerbaijan’s confrontation with “others”, much more so when dealing with the subject of its “historical” enemies.
   Incidentally, one of the central if not the principal points covered in the textbook refers to sacrificing oneself in the name and for the benefit of the motherland. Thus, in the section entitled“Those Who Live For The Motherland Elevate It”, only a small portion is dedicated to the figures of culture and art. The narrative mostly covers heroes (Babek, Kerogly and Shah Ismail) who dedicate their lives to the motherland fighting in the name of its independence.527
   According to Yunusov, the patriotic education holds a significant place in the Azerbaijani textbooks and directly ensues from the doctrine of“fighting the enemies”, represented by the Armenians, as well as the willingness to sacrifice own lives for the motherland and in the “heroic struggle” against the enemies.
   In subsequent sections of the textbook, its authors pay increasing attention to Armenians who begin to be perceived as“the main infidels clad in black”. Also, a variety of negative epithets (“bandits”, “aggressors”, “perfidious”, “hypocritical” etc.) are used in respect of the Armenians. It were the “perfidious” Armenians who helped Russia in conquering Azerbaijan, it was the result of the “insurrection of Armenian bandits” in Karabakh in 1920 that the main forces of the Azerbaijani army were pulled back from the northern borders, a chance that was exploited by the 11th Red Army which invaded Azerbaijan. Thus, the “black-clad infidels” once again committed their black deed”. In the final part of the textbook, its authors decisively shape the image of the enemy represented by Armenians who have waged for centuries a struggle against the Azerbaijani people and continue to do so in our days: “Armenians, the black-clad infidels and their patrons resort to every treacherousand base scheme to weaken and isolate our state”.528
   In what follows, the Turkic origin of some persons is constantly underscored. The authors get so carried away with their love for Turkization that they contrive to make preposterous and absurd statements: In 337, the Albanian ruler Sanatruk (Sanaturk of Turkic origin, according to the version advanced by the authors of the textbook) led a campaign against Armenia and“protected the local Turkic population from the encroachments of the Christian preachers!” In the following year, the Armenian military leader, Vache Mamikonyan, launched a retaliation campaign against Albania and defeated Sanatruk’s army. However, the pupils who read about this event will find out that the Armenian military leader Mamikonyan was actually of… Turkic rather than Armenian origin. And, in general, Turkic people played a prominent role in spreading and strengthening Christianity in Armenia! This means we have an absurd picture: First, Turkic people spread Christianity in Armenia. In response to that, another Turk from the territory of Albania leads an incursion into Armenia in order to protect the local Turkic people from Christians. This is followed by a retaliation campaign by another Turk, but a Christian this time, who defeated the army of a non-Christian Turk!529
   Aleko Partsvaniya, journalist, notes:“Peacefulness and tolerance are other characteristic features of Azerbaijanis. Here, people do not like aggression and resort to it in very rare cases. With one exception. The name of this exception is Armenia. Armenia is hated. They do so with all their heart and their entire state. I do not know all the details of the story with Karabakh and I do not think that most of the Azerbaijanis do, but Armenia is hated for Karabakh. They are taught to hate Armenia from the primary classes. I won’t be surprised if the situation is similar in Armenia, but here things can get ridiculous. In Baku itis even impossible to find the CDs of a Western group, if any of their performers is of Armenian origin”.530
   In April 2012, at the session of the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly held in Baku, during the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Education and Culture, the question of the Azerbaijani textbooks was brought up for discussion. The Armenian deputy, Aram Safaryan asked:“Is it true that your schools and textbooks contain propaganda of hostility and hatred to Armenians?” To that, the Minister of Education, Misir Mardanov531 replied:“There is a vast chasm between our societies. And today’s event is a step towards bridging this chasm. I don’t know what is written in your books, and you don’t know what is written in our books. Therefore, it is hardly possible to find an answer to this question in a single day or during asingle event. Questions of this nature call for very serious studies by specialists”.532
   Fatherland,textbook for the 5th grade:… It was 1945. In January, fierce fighting raged on the Baltic shore near the city of Mitawa. As before, the brigade of the General H. Aslanov was in the vanguard. The victory over the enemy was drawing near with every new day, and it seemed that the tankmen of the courageous general will be the first to enter Berlin – the den of fascism. This was the situation on January 24, 1945 as the heroic son of our people who had gone through the horrors of Stalingrad, through the hell of the Battle of Kursk, General Hazi Aslanov died under obscure circumstances. Who knows, maybe in revealing the circumstances of this death, another case of base Armenian perfidy and treachery will be unearthed?533
   The websiteMusаvаt.соmconducted a survey among scholars, pedagogues, psychologists and deputies on the subject of“whether the Azerbaijani textbooks contain propaganda of hatred against Armenians”. Venerable respondents did not refute the presence of armenophobia and set about expatiating upon the question why armenophobia became reflected in the academic literature”.534
   Tahir Ibragimov, a teacher of history with a service record of 25 years,considers that textbooks reflect the truth about Armenians. In his opinion, with a war going on between the two peoples, it is impossible to create a positive image of the enemy.“Children must have real information about their history. Facts about Armenians may not be distorted. Besides, by the age the children are given these classes, they already possess information about the real deeds of Armenians. In our textbooks, we cannot write the opposite”.535
   T. Ibragimovalso believes that textbooks do not contain any denigration of Armenians, but report true facts:“If these facts make Armenians uneasy, let them change their nature. We may not raise our children in lies just to please them. Presently, there are thousands of pupils whose parents are refuges from Karabakh. They know what Armenians did long before their history classes. Why should we deceive them?”
   The dualist approach taken by the psychologist Elmira Qasimzadeh is worthy of a note. On the one hand, she believes that“atextbook should not be turned into an instrument of vengeance” and“instead, attention must be paid to forming historical thinking in pupils. The textbooks must contain essential points enabling to assess one’s country and motherland correctly. I wouldn’t like our patriotism to be measured in the extent of our hatred”. On the other hand, she says the following: “In our textbooks, I never saw any appeals to kill Armenians or the ideas that Armenians are our enemies. My own child goes to school. Indeed, children are well-informed of the wrongdoings perpetrated by Armenians from television and books. How can we conceal from children the tragedies of January 20, Khojaly and the occupation of our lands?536 Or, children must learn the whole truth about the history through a factual language: you can’t teach children a false history”.537
   A pupil of the 11th grade, Hasan Nagizadeh, expressed his full agreement with both the author of the textbook and its content.
   The author is Azerbaijani. Of course, he intends to arouse enmity. This is how it should be”, said he. “They definitely don’t want to prepare us for peace. We don’t need peace. Armenians have committed a multitude of bloody crimes against us. The peace would mean disrespect to those who fell in this war.538
   With reference to the above, we offer the reader a few extracts from theTeacher’s guide on patriotic education of preschool and schoolchildrenandTeacher’s guide for the patriotic education of children.539
   Developed by:Scientific and Methodological Department of the Republican Children’s Library after F. Kocharli and the Methodological Department of the Central Library after S. Vurgun.
   Approved by:The Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Republic of Azerbaijan Baku 2009Explanatory note: The guides suggest specific scenarios and recommended words and phrases to be pronounced by the facilitators; besides, the Methodological Guide recommends this training for children starting from the age of 3.
   The first facilitator: Our lands must not remain shahids540! Our grandfathers protected this land from the enemies not to be now sacrificed to the calamity of the century, the Armeniandom! The tombstones of the Turkic sons in the Shahids’ Lane are not lined up so that some Russian soldier could say: “Don’t be so anguished, your leaders have sold Karabakh long ago”.
   The second facilitator: If the motherland becomes shahid (see above), what can we reply to the infant held in his mother’s embrace on the square and crying “better death than retreat”?
   No, the son of Turk, no! You won’t let your land become shahid! Let us swear an oath, all those who have Turkic blood running through their veins, let us swear an oath that even if this world turns upside down, the enemy hands will be cut off from our land! Let us swear an oath that we will avenge every single drop of blood spilled by our shahids and turned into the tears of the earth. Let us swear that our oath will not be like our other vows. Let us swear this oath!* * *
   “To raise the children in a patriotic spirit and to form their civic stand, it is recommended to hold disputes.
   The questions of the dispute must be as follows:
   – Who are Armenians, and what is our civic duty?”

   Foreword to the storybookHalefor high school students:
   My young friend!
   Hey, the Azerbaijani offspring of an ancient and powerful Turkic nation! A piece of your treasure named Azerbaijan, starting from the mahal of Aghbaba to the region of Aghdam moans under the heel of a nation that has declared you an eternal historical enemy, a nation that has no future, whose morality is dead, who has all kinds of mixed waste running through its veins, a spiteful and scorned nation. You have confronted face to face such a loathsome foe who shuns no savagery, baseness, abomination, barbarity, hypocrisy, slander and evil, who lives and nurtures hopes of creating on a territory where he doesn’t have a single inch of historical lands a state named Great Armenia extending from the Black to the Caspian Sea.
   On his way, the foe spilled the Turkic blood, but was never sated. At times, he feigned friendship and gaining our trust revealed his relentless enmity. Laughing us in the face, he prepared a pitfall for us by choosing the way of treachery and treason. Always abusing our kind-heartedness, friendship, fidelity to neighbors and generosity, in a word, our love of fellow men, the enemy turned it into a weapon against us, repaid good with evil by laying bare his treacherous nature. At the earliest opportunity they drew their daggers to stab in the back those who had given them refuge, food, drink, protection extending them a helping hand. Armenians turned us into innocent victims of the policy of ethnic cleansings. We fell victims to genocide.
   This restless nation with the satanic blood running through their veins has committed against us countless acts of terror.
   They wagged their tails before the Russian Empire which had always kept us under occupation, and they relied on its power and protection. As a rule, they would succeed in isolating and excluding us. For 200 years, the Russian Empire kept our hands tied and urged the Armenians to strike at us.
   Armenians took full advantage of this and turned the treachery into a national trait by overstepping the boundaries of unbridled insolence.
   At every step, they showed aggression against us and seized parts of our sacred land. And they chose the city of Irevan as their capital which was previously our motherland.541
   Arif Yunusov, the Azerbaijani political analyst and journalist, wrote that the war in Karabakh called for the role models of independence fighters and national heroes. This resulted in a great number of publications dedicated to the champions of the motherland rather than figures of culture. Incidentally, almost all of them proved to fight primarily against Armenians, as well as against Russia and Iran. It is Armenia (and Armenians) joined by Russia and Iran that are portrayed at an ever increasing rate as the“enemies” of Azerbaijan and its independence. Even when publications did not concern Karabakh, but referred to the reprisals in the Soviet Union in the time of Stalin, in that case too, the Armenian origin of investigators was heavily emphasized.542
   In the paragraph entitled Kitabi Dede Korkut: the Historical Chronicle of Our Fatherland, the authors again couldn’t refrain from armenophobic accent in their loose interpretation of the original text of the epic common for all Turkic people, albeit azerbaijanized.543
   In the context of indoctrinating armenophobia, some researchers point out to the warping of historical facts to accommodate the needs of the moment:
   a) exacerbate the negative image of Armenians (as well as Russians and Iranians);
   b) furnish proof of the “indigenous character of the Turks in Caucasus” and the “ecdemic character of Armenians”;
   c) attempt abdicating responsibility for the bloodshed in the late 20th century by putting the blame on Armenians.

   Some extracts from Azerbaijani textbooks:544

   Ancient history 6th gradeSection II Ancient world Chapter II Ancient East§ Ancient Sumerians Part 1

   Question№ 4:When and wherefrom did the Turkic speaking people Sumerians arrive in Mesopotamia?
   Correct answer:In 7th-6th millennium B.C. from Central Asia and Altai foothills.545

   Question№ 12:Who and when invented the cuneiform writing system?
   Correct answer:Turkic-speaking546 Sumerians in Western Asia in the 3rd millennium B.C.

   Question№ 13:What peoples borrowed the cuneiform writing system?
   Correct answer:Akkadians, Babylonians and Assyrians

   History of Azerbaijan 6th gradeSection II First tribal unions and states on the territory of Azerbaijan§ 13 Iskits (Scythian) Culture Part 2

   Question№ 9:What is the origin of Iskits, Cimmerians and Sakaes?
   Correct answer:Turkic

   History of Azerbaijan 6th gradeSection I. Primitive communal system in Azerbaijan.§ 1. The first human dwellings on the territory of Azerbaijan.

   Question:When did the first human bands appear in Azerbaijan?
   Correct answer:1.5 million years ago.

   Question:What sources make the first mention of the ancient Azerbaijani tribes?
   Correct answer:Sumerian legends and cuneiform inscriptions.

   History of Azerbaijan 6th gradeSection IV Ancient Azerbaijani states Albania

   Question:When was the independent Albanian state established?
   Correct answer:Late 4th century– early 3rd century B.C.

   Question:How far did the borders of Albania extend?
   Correct answer:Albania bordered on the Caucasus Mountains in the north, Atropatene in the south, Iberia in the northwest and Western Asia in the southwest (!).

   History of Middle Ages 7th gradeSection I. Countries of the world in the earlyМiddle Аge (emergence of feudal relationships) Chapter 1. Peoples of China, Iran and Caucasus § 3. Peoples of the Caucasus Part 1

   Question№ 5:What states existed in the South Caucasus in the earlyМiddle Age?
   Correct answer:Albania, Lazica and Karli547

   Question№ 9:After what developments did Albania win back its historical lands?
   Correct answer:Devastation of the Armenian kingdom548

   Question№ 15:Who was Sanaturk549 and what did he struggle for?
   Correct answer:Sanaturk was the ruler of Paytakaran province who combated the spread of Christianity in favor of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Albania.

   History of Azerbaijan 7th gradeSection III Fall of Arab Caliphate and revival of Azerbaijani statehood Chapter III Azerbaijani Culture§ 31 Our people’s struggle against “Gyavurs clad in black” as portrayed in the epic (Dede Korkut) Part 1

   Question№ 1:What events does the epos illustrate most vividly?
   Correct answer:The struggle of the Oghuz brave men against Armenian and Georgian invaders and their guiding hand, the Byzantine Empire.

   Section 1. States of the world in the 11th-15th centuries.Chapter IV Caucasus and peoples of Western Europe§ 9 Caucasian peoples Part 4

   Question№ 16:What Azerbaijani cities did the Georgian King George III invade in 1173 and 1203?
   Correct answer:Ani and Debil (Dvin)550

   The Azerbaijani History textbookfor 7th gradeswarms with allegations that the ancient Albania (purportedly ancient Azerbaijan) also suffered aggression from Armenians, although“the people and rulers of Albania stretched a helping hand to them in hard times”. Meanwhile, Armenians spread Christianity in Albania that “was not rooted there” and in the guise of the religion allegedly seized the “Azerbaijani lands” under the wing of the Byzantine Empire.551“However, Albania did not become a Christian country”, but rather adopted Islam in the 7th century; it is precisely the Turkic people that wages a war against Armenians and their Christian patrons.

   Training manual for 9th grade studentsBiology: Human Biology: Laboratory Work552
   Approved at the session (March 27, 2003) of Biology Panel of the Scientific and Methodical Commission, Ministry of Education of the Azerbaijani Republic. The authors intended“…to impart theoretical knowledge and nurture patriotic individuals through practical activities (laboratory works, tests, math problems, crossword puzzles)”.
   SectionCharacteristics of Locomotor System, exercise:“Who can say the approximate number of the disabled people who lost their limbs in the Karabakh war?”
   Exercise:Find out the reason! In times of the Nagorno-Karabakh war, several young people aged 20 or 21 threw themselves from a high cliff in an attempt to divert the enemy’s attention. Despite of the treatment, they are disabled now. Many of them cannot move their lower limbs, and some suffer enuresis. Explain the reason!”
   SectionBrief Information on Blood and Hematopoietic System, problem:“During the Nagorno-Karabakh events of 1992, a group of people (children, teenagers, pregnant women and elderly people), fled from the enemy as fast as their legs could carry them into the forests, mountains and valleys. Indicate approximately the heart rate of those people and explain the underlying cause”.
   SectionBrief Information on Respiratory System, problem:“When Azerbaijanis were banished from Zangezur, every second of them suffered health deterioration and needed artificial ventilation. Some of them perished, and some survived. Explain the reason underlying the state of those people”.
   A textbook for the 9th gradenotes that in order to foil the expansionist plans of the Russian tsar Peter the Great (Peter I), the Azerbaijanis (Shia and Sunni) supposedly turned to Ottoman Turks553 for help in an attempt to unite themselves with their brothers in religion and language. Again, Armenians allegedly prevented this from happening:“Armenians, as the henchmen of the tsarism, maintained direct contacts with Russia and pledged their help in conquering the Southern Caucasus, including other regions of Azerbaijan”.554
   A textbook forthe 10th gradeexpatiates upon the issue of the Armenian repatriation in the 19th century:“The creation of the Armenian state under the Russian patronage as well as the resettlement of Armenians from Iran and Turkey on the lands invaded by Russia was no coincidence, but a logical outcome of the relationships between Armenians and Russians”.555
   The blame for the conflict between Armenians and Tatars of 1905–1906 is placed on the “Dashnaktsutyun party and the Armenian bands”. Led by Dashnaks, Armenians “purportedly cherished vain dreams of creating the Great Armenia”. Although, despite the fact that “the Azerbaijanis were very humane and trusting, they could, nevertheless, inflict on Armenians heavy losses”.
   The Armenian pogroms of March 1918 in Baku are covered in a textbook on the history of Azerbaijan for the11th gradein a chapter entitledThe Azerbaijani genocide. Here, the“naive and humane Azerbaijanis” oppose Armenians allied with the soviet (earlier: tsarist) troops. If in the soviet period this event was portrayed as a symbol of the joint struggle of workers of all nationalities against the reactionary Azerbaijani nationalists, now these events are depicted otherwise: as the Azerbaijani genocide. The underpinnings of this change can be traced back to the presidential decree by Heydar Aliyev dated March 26, 1998 declaring March 31 as the Azerbaijani “genocide memorial day”.556
   To make things look even more convincing, the authors of the textbook quote at the end of the chapter the words of Mammad Amin Rasulzadeh, one of the leaders of the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic, with reference to these events by adding a note of their own:“M. A. Rasulzadeh characterized the genocide of 1918 as a national and political factor”. However, prior to the official decree by Heydar Aliyev, nobody referred to these events as genocide. Also, this term does not appear in Rasulzadeh’s original quote about these bloody events.557
   In 2011, the Department of Strategic Analysis, Planning and Human Resources Management of the Azerbaijan’s Ministry of Education held an examination for applicants who sought to fill 223 job openings for the positions of history teachers in the schools of the country. 761 persons took part in the examination. The applicants could obtain a score ranging from 4–5 to 16–17 points (!) with a minimum passing score of 35. In explaining their failure, the participants made reference to the “complexity” of the questions. The examinees had to answer 35 questions within 1 hour of the exam that started at 9 a.m.558
   Against this background, the picture described in an article byTuraninformation agency seems to be a common occurrence:“A lecturer at one of the Azerbaijan’s universities relished in a rapturous and vivid account of how he would strangle barehanded even a little Armenian child without the slightest remorse”.559 The lecturer in question taught the theory of radio journalism and simultaneously worked on AZTV radio station.
   “With this lecturer, all criticism was met with a singleairtight argument:“How can you criticize our president when we face such a problem for the entire country: Armenians? We must focus on that”, says the article.
   Aydin Aslanov, a candidate of Historical Sciences, associate professor at the Chair of Social Disciplines of the Baku Institute for Advanced Training and Retraining for Teachers, in his turn, laments that the history textbook in its account of the“Azerbaijani genocide of 1918 in Baku” says that the Armenians walked over the corpses (of the Azerbaijanis). The Russian translation says: “They walked over pipes”560.“You can’t do that”, complains Aslanov.
   It was the same Aslanov who stated with reference to the errors and blunders in the Azerbaijani textbooks:“We should always indicate in our textbooks that we are an ancient indigenous people of Caucasus which later changed our language into Turkic and became Muslims renouncing our fire worship. We are local and not ecdemic. We must take pride in the fact that our ancestor Moisey Kalankatuyski built the first Christian church in the Orient, in the village of Kish of Sheki region.561 Somehow, we avoid speaking about our church dating back to the 1st century B.C.562
   The new tendencies of the historicalscience of Azerbaijanhave also drawn the attention of Russian authors. An article entitledUnearthing the Truth, or Who and Why Overwrites the History563 published on theVoice of Russiawebsite pays a special attention to the absurdities appearing in Azerbaijani textbooks. The article notes that the analysis of 187 CIS-published textbooks conducted by a group of Russian historians has revealed that except for Belarus and Armenia, schools teach a nationalist version of history based on myths of indigeneity, the ancestral land, the linguistic succession, glorious forefathers, ethnic homogeneity and the arch enemy.
   The authors of the reportCoverage of general history of Russia and post-soviet nations in the school History textbooks of newly independent states, A. A. Danilov and A. V. Filippov write the following:564
   “The reasoning behind the antiquity of the national history can reach ridiculous proportions.&lt;…&gt; The ancestors of Azerbaijanis are made out to be the contemporaries of Sumerians:“The first written accounts of the tribes of the ancient Azerbaijan are given in Sumerian epics and cuneiform writings”. Heralding the ancient Azerbaijanis as Sumerian contemporaries seeks to shore the allegations that the modern Armenia came into being on the territory of the ancient Western Azerbaijan.
   …
   The exemption from the scientific rigor opened ample opportunities for blending entirely diverging concepts. A part of the soviet historians claimed that the ethnogenesis of the Azerbaijanis originally occurred on the Turkic basis with contributions from Persian-speaking and Caucasian tribes; later, the ethnic composition progressively became homogeneous and entirely Turkic. Another group of scholars claimed that the ancestors of the Azerbaijanis might speak varying languages in different periods of time, yet undergoing no ethnic changes. The Turkic language rooted itself in as late as the X–XI centuries, but the Turkic people themselves were assimilated by the local population. Both concepts were united in their alignment to the theory of indigenous origin, but were divided in their treatment of the language as the basis of a unified culture.
   In this sense, the authors of the modern Azerbaijani textbooks saw no problems whatsoever:“The formation of the Turkic people of Azerbaijan resulted from the amalgamation of Turkic ethnic groups known under different names, such as Azeri, Gargars, Albans, Huns, Khazars, Sabirs, Oghuz and others, which populated this vast territory from the antiquity and migrated there on regular basis”. However, it is known for sure that the most ancient of the listed tribes – Azeris and Albans – have nothing to do with the Turkic people. To this, the authors produce the following answer. “According to historical legend, approximately in the 2nd century B.C. Albania was ruled by Aran… Because of the ruler’s mild character, he was given a nickname Agu (good, kind), and the country came to be known as Aguan (Albania). It is clear that both the name and nickname of Albania’s first ruler are of ancient Turkic origin”. Thus, both concepts of the Azerbaijani ethnogenesis have been mechanically fused together which allowed addressing the antiquity problem, the linguistic unity problem as well as the problem of uninterrupted ethnogenesis and culture. The only drawback of this truly brilliant scheme is that it is anti-scientific through and through. But on the other hand, it allows substantiating a point of paramount importance: “The modern Armenia came into being on the territory of the ancient Western Azerbaijan”.
   In this context, threats of obliterating Armenia and Armenians as well as the claims to theWestern Azerbaijanwhich are voiced in various venues invoking the common Islamic factor come across as quite natural.
   I have always supported the idea that the Karabakh problem should be made international, that it should be incorporated into the common Islamic problem so that Azerbaijan could lean upon general Islamic support in addressing the problem and ending definitively the Armenian occupation and the consequences of its aggression.&lt;…&gt;
   They were brought there by the tsarist empire in the aftermath of wars with Turkey and Iran in the 19th century. Therefore, this issue, the problem of the Armenian occupation of the Azerbaijani lands including Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent regions of Azerbaijan must be resolved drastically.&lt;…&gt;

   As a matter of fact, I believe that Armenia as a state has no place in the South Caucasus. It was artificially created and exists on the territory of our Azerbaijani khanate of Irevan. And the khanate of Irevan must be restored as an integral part of the great Azerbaijan&lt;…&gt;.565
   19. Armenophobia in the Azerbaijani literature
   Do you know the importance of the childhood impressions?
   A mere good habit and inclination in childhood can become a virtue at mature age.Gogol566
   Fiction and academic literature represent one of the most extensive forms of propaganda and indoctrination of ideology.
   The literature, particularly the children’s literature, is at the core of shaping the world outlook, moral principles and set of values at the very outset of life. It shapes the sense of morality and appraisal, the code of moral conduct and instills aesthetic perception.567
   The assessment of the values underlying the future-oriented Azerbaijani society of our day calls for a scrutiny of the literary works which shape certain attitudes, views and ensuing line of conduct in respect of Armenians.
   The factors of the territorial vicinity and a long history of coexistence secure a central place in the Azerbaijani literature for the subject of the relationships between Armenians and Azerbaijanis. A comparison of literary works on the subjects of the relationships between Georgians and Azerbaijanis, Azerbaijanis and Russians, Azerbaijanis and Iranians as well as Azerbaijanis and Armenians reveal the salience of the latter in terms of sheer numbers and representative variety. Over recent years, the number of works containing a negative appraisal of Armenians has noticeably increased.
   The inculcation of armenophobia occurs in 2 ways: direct and indirect methods.
   The direct methodrepresents an open and unabashed propaganda and a straightforwardhate speech. Its incidence increased in recent years compared to the rule of Heydar Aliyev, the father of the current president in office.
   The indirect methodrepresents a method that does not explicitly designate the ethnic origin in its depiction of the image and its distinctive traits, but makes the reader guess to whom the reference is made based on the events of the narration and thesignature style.
   Leyla Sayfutdinova who studied specimens of the modern Azerbaijani literature discerned certain patterns. The author notes that the literature draws a very clear borderline between Armenians and Azerbaijanis:“I don’t recall a single case when the national identity of an Armenian character remains unknown or is absolutely irrelevant to the story and therefore, to the relations between Armenians and Azerbaijanis”.568
   The author notes that there is a distinction not only in terms of contrasting Armenians and Azerbaijanis, but also in terms of tagging them as“good our” and “bad other” Armenians, which comes to mean those who live in Azerbaijan and visitors, respectively. “Good” Armenians are those who live in Azerbaijan and are fond of their Azerbaijani friends. “Bad” Armenians are their opposites. Most frequently, foreign Armenians, i.e. Armenians who came to Azerbaijan and Caucasus from other places are portrayed as “bad”.569
   The study of 22 latest literary works dated after 2008 made it clear that the image of“our” Armenians is portrayed as “pretenders”, and their sincerity raises doubts or calls for vigilance. Thus, the children’s story entitledSpyby Shabnam Kheyrulla570 is quite illustrative in terms of the educational process; the plot contains the character of aunt Aliya, an Armenian woman portrayed through the prism of the Azerbaijanis characters, through the eyes of children and the author herself.
   Military news! It was with this news that the program started. The news reader announced that four of our soldiers had been killed.
   &lt;…&gt; The children were curious to see how our guest reacted to the news. This reaction was not long in coming. Upon hearing the news, aunt Aliya looked perplexed and started cursing her compatriots by calling them ignoble and ungrateful. But the children were no longer surprised because they were sure that she was a“spy”, and that was exactly what “spies” were supposed to say… Neither Natik, nor Sabina knew that this “spy” was one of the thousands of Armenians who lived in their country. Another thing the children did not know was that this Armenian woman had changed her religion in good time and later she also changed her name. Whether she did so out of fear or she indeed had renounced her ethnicity was something that even the adults failed to see through. But one thing this Armenian woman could not do to change: the vicious blood of her nation that ran in her veins. Powerless to do so, aunt Aliyah, who was ashamed, had no other choice but to go around abusing and cursing her compatriots at the first good opportunity. At heart, she was tormented by agonizing doubts.
   At this point, a woman aged 60 and maybe more went into the street, and the children immediately exclaimed in unison:“Hello, aunt Anya!” and ran up to her. The woman who was their neighbor returned a friendly smile and asked the children how they were doing, what they were busy with and patted them on the head.&lt;…&gt; It would have never occurred to the children that aunt Anya, who they were so fond of and to whom they had just flocked, was Armenian, and she was merely one of the thousands of them who lived in Baku.&lt;…&gt; Once again, I was persuaded that we would never change. Our capacity for enmity would, alas, stay at the level of words and playground rhymes in some game.571
   Or, heirs to their legacy, they secretly plot against good-natured Azerbaijanis:
   Zayka was a nurse who had obtained the job only days ago. Her interest in the surgical department was nothing but accidental. She had been assigned this mission by her father, a member of a secret Armenian committee. Her assignment was to get access to this department of the maternity hospital and poison non-Armenian newborns mostly of Turkic origin with chemicals. It was beyond doubt that Zayka would handle her mission well as according to her father, in many years that her mother worked at the same maternity hospital she had dispatched many Turkic children. Now Zayka was about to follow her mother’s trade.&lt;…&gt; She took up the dozing Suraya and led her to one of the wards, put her to bed there and hurried up to the surgical department where a young Azerbaijani doctor named Fazil was awaiting her. Winning his confidence, Zayka intended to gain access to the medicines. They entered his office and shut the door.572
   The prevailing stereotypes about Armenians planted in the Azerbaijani society certain notions about a“typical Armenian” behavior: the Armenian character must necessarily be envious, feigning and ultimately treacherous (deception and betrayal).
   Always abusing our kind-heartedness, friendship, fidelity to neighbors and generosity, in a word, our love of fellow men, Armenians turned it into a weapon against us, repaid good with evil by laying bare their treacherous nature. At the earliest opportunity, they drew their daggers to stab in the back those who had given them refuge, food, drink, protection extending them a helping hand.573
   Russian and Armenian joined forces to attack the peaceful nomads’ camp for murder and plunder. The people of the nomads’ camp, Azerbaijanis, who had always considered Armenians as their younger and Russians as their еlder brothers were astounded by their treachery and perfidy&lt;…&gt; He looked up to see his friends, the Russian Stepan and the Armenian Valod enter the forge; they had kept saying to Ilham:“You are my brother”.574
   The plot ofIlham and Farizatold the story of a couple that fell victim to the soviet troops moved into Baku after a week-long Armenian pogrom, which in Azerbaijan is referred to as theBlack January. It is emblematic in a context where a use of fictional devices and propaganda makes the modern Azerbaijani youth believe that on January 20th, the Armenians and Russians“killed the Azerbaijani heroes”. This is clearly shown in a video report575 in which the schoolchildren answer the reporter’s questions, such as: “what happened on January 20, 1990 in Baku?”, “who did our shekhids fight against and whom did they protect?”, “why did they kill us?” The children gave the following answers:
   • On that day, Armenians killed Azerbaijanis, and our heroes courageously protected us.
   • Because they didn’t like our motherland.
   • They fought against Armenians, whose tanks drove over the heads of our people and they protecting our independence from the Russian imperialism.
   Also, Armenians are portrayed as having a characteristic and typical toolbox such as“underhand killing” and “stabbing in the back”.
   Leyla Sayfutdinova: The plot of the novel entitled Key to Your House by R. Huseynova (2008) unfolds in a period running from the early 20th century to 1930s, in which the Armenians killed the 9-year-old son of an Azerbaijani named Sadiyar Aga during an incursion into his land. Later, he kills all of the raiders, apart from the instigator named Levon Sarkisyan who comes from the Ottoman Turkey and carries in his heart a loathing for all Turks. The work of the Azerbaijani author tells how Sadiyar gives in to the pleas of his wife not to kill a father in front of his children and spares Levon who then tracks Sadiyar down and kills him from behind.576
   The depiction of brutality, bloodshed and violence expectedly perpetrated by Armenians holds a special place in the Azerbaijani literature:
   “In the meanwhile, blood flew like water in the nomads’ camp. Pools of blood formed all over the place. Cries and moans rose to the skies. The survivors were looking for their kins. Fariza felt an ill foreboding, she ran to the forge and found Ilham there bleeding to death”.577
   “The Armenians torn out his beard, knocked out his teeth, put out his eyes, cut off his ears and nose… My grandmother saw it happen. The women and children of his house were made to watch as they were doing this to him. Next, they started shooting women… The entire Muslim part of the city wascommitted to fire”.578
   “My little one, they were chopping our infants to pieces, ripped our pregnant women open with their bayonets and spoke of the “sweet Turkic blood”, all these beasts!”579
   Samvel Martirosyan, a member of theXenophobia Prevention Initiative,believes that Azerbaijan’s raising generation is targeted by the state propaganda which foments feelings of hatred towards Armenians. This means that the state propaganda infiltrates a domain where it is not supposed to be, and this issue must be raised internationally.
   Final remarks
   We have attempted to review most, if not all significant aspects of the public life of Azerbaijan that displays a premeditated and far-reaching cultivation and indoctrination of armenophobia at state policy level.
   It infiltrates all aspects of the country’s life on both horizontal and vertical planes engulfing all groups irrespective of sex, age and social status. The level of involvement in the fight against “the world Armeniandom” encompasses all most significant areas of country’s socio-economic and intellectual life, such as its science, economy, politics, upbringing, education, culture and sport.
   Fallacious practices are employed along with the distortion and arbitrary interpretation of the universal set of values. The core meaning of certain categories is replaced to impose a form that is essentially in contradiction with universal concepts. This comes to discredit such concepts as patriotism and tolerance, law and morality, good and evil.
   It is the missing tolerance that sets conditions for an emerging aggression. Unacceptable in a civilized society, it nonetheless exists in today’s Azerbaijan, which, in its turn, signals the continuing existence of a fertile soil for the emergence of a xenophobic propaganda.
   However, the ethnic intolerance must not be regarded in isolation from the progression of the Azerbaijani national self-awareness, as it forms an integral part of the process, rather than an individual social and psychological phenomenon.
   Yet, it must be noted that the anti-Armenian propaganda which targets the Azerbaijani society carries serious risks for Armenia as well.
   Modern.az has conducted a poll among the three generations of Azerbaijanis; the respondents included grandparents, parents and children. Contrasted to a more or less adequate appraisal of Armenians on behalf of adult respondents, the children’s aggression is a matter of concern for the future of our own youngsters.580
   Gismet, 5th grader: Lachin is the place, where my father and mother were born, it is my homeland. Now, these lands are in the hands of the mean Armenians. They are bad and cruel people. But they must not be feared, as they are a weak people and a weak state”.&lt;…&gt;In order to make Lachin ours again, we need a strong army to kill Armenians and recover our lands.&lt;…&gt; When I grow up, I will be brave like Mubariz, and I will return our lands. If I can get my hands on an Armenian child, I’ll kill him/ her. I will do all that they have done in Khojaly. My heart is filled with hatred of them&lt;…&gt;
   Do we have to fight the enemy on the battlefield only?&lt;…&gt; Armenians must be fought against everywhere, even in sports. The Armenian children always said that Sultanbek was a bad man who had banished them from Lachin. They perceived our heroes as their enemies and hated them.

   Aysel, 10 years old:&lt;…&gt; The Armenians are our enemies. They are bad people. They kill people. They want to take our land from us. They want to kill the people, children. My mother told me.&lt;…&gt; If I see an Armenian child, I will kill him/her.
   &lt;…&gt;The youngest of children, a preschooler Aikhan, though did not venture to kill an Armenian child, but said that he would still beat him up in revenge.
   Sooner or later, the peace will be restored in the region. What will be the face of such peace, if the next generation treads heavy with hatred to another people, and the murderous intent becomes part of its identity?
   Will the feelings of hatred towards Armenians dissipate? Will it take years before generations change and those harboring feelings of armenophobia disappear as a form of perceiving the surrounding world?
   Yet, such policy of inciting hatred for Armenians is no less prejudicial for the Azerbaijani society in short and long perspective. Unable to show real aggression against the Armenians, the new generations of Azerbaijanis develop psychological phenomena known as transference, when the hatred is directed against a more readily available and weaker entity, and sublimation, when an aggressive impulse takes an entirely different form against an entirely different object.
   Father axes his daughter of fifteen in Agdzhabedy”, “Husband kills wife for too little salt in food in Sabirabad region”, “Resident of Baku maims girl for his rejected advances”, “17-year-old stabs his 14-year old brother five times over a computer game in the Khachmaz region”, “Man pours gasoline on civil wife and sets her ablazein Baku”, “Brother beheads his 16-year-old sister in Shemakha.
   &lt;…&gt; The results of a research conducted in a local university were literally shocking for specialists.“The latent aggression among the Azerbaijani youth simply exceeds all limits. Massive verbal aggression (verbal expression of negative feelings), rumors, gossip and envy among the students lead us to believe that a further surge of aggression is to be expected in the coming years”, says Araz A.Manuchei-Lalei, an associate professor at the chair of Psychiatry of the Medical University of Azerbaijan.581
   Raising entire generations in a spirit of hatred for Armenians based on false stereotypes, the rulers of Azerbaijan attack the minds of their children robbing them of any chance to follow a natural path of development and personal growth. Instead, the resulting product of such policy is a citizen who takes an aggressive stance against his arch enemy– the Armenian – fully prepared to take ruthless action against Armenians. The heroization of Ramil Safarov by the leadership of Azerbaijan sets a precedent for generations to come which raised under the heavy load of the anti-Armenian propaganda are pushed towards similar ‘heroic deeds’ byall means available.
   We would like to conclude this book with a quote from Akram Aylisli appearing in his interview to theAzadlygradio station on July 19, 2013:582“If we had carefully studied the legacy of Mirza Jalil, Sabir583 and others, we would not have been in the moral abyss, in which we are now. But Mirza and Sabir wrote about exactly the same things, of which I write now”.* * *
   You will also be interested to read this:
   – Armenophobia in the Textbooks Used in Azerbaijan http://azerichild.education/en/index.html
   – Armenophobia in children's literature, prose, poetry, games, proverbs and sayings http://azerichild.info/
   – Caviar diplomacy of Azerbaijanhttp://caviar-diplomacy.net/azerbaijan/en_US/
   Sources
   1
   Буртовая Е. В. (сост.) Конфликтология. Учебное пособие. 2002. http://vipstudent.ru/index.php?q=lib&r=16&id=1195230045&p=0 (rus)
   2
   C.R.Mitchell,“The Structure of International Conflict”), NY, 1989 (rus)
   3
   Солдатова Г.У, Макарчук А.В… Может ли другой стать другом? Тренинг по профилактике ксенофобии. – М.: Генезис, 2006. (rus)
   4
   Э. Фромм. Анатомия человеческой деструктивности. кн, Пер. с англ. Э. М. Телятникова, Т. В. Панфилова. Изд. АСТ, Москва, 2004. 635. (rus)
   5
   И. Кон. Психология предрассудка. О социально-психологических корнях этнических предубеждений, Чернявская Ю. Психология национальной нетерпимости. Хрестоматия. Минск, «Харвест», 1998. – 560. (rus)
   6
   Г.У. Солдатова, А.В. Макарчук. Может ли другой стать другом? Тренинг по профилактике ксенофобии. М.: Генезис, 2006. (rus)
   7
   Солдатова Г.У. Психологические механизмы ксенофобии, ст. Психологический журнал, No.006 Vol.27, 2006, http://lib.convdocs.org/docs/index-198579.html (rus)
   8
   А. Белояр. Толковый словарь демократического новояза и эвфемизмов, http://politike.ru/dictionary/472 (rus)
   9
   Алексей Цюрупа. Ксенофобия как проявление инстинкта этнической изоляции, Чернявская Ю. Психология национальной нетерпимости. Хрестоматия. Минск, «Харвест», 1998. – 560. (rus)
   10
   Архангородский, М. Любовь нечаянно нагрянет… (О психологии личности при тоталитарных и автократических режимах), Книга-хрестоматия, http://proza.ru/2011/10/28/1769 (rus)
   11
   Op.cit.
   12
   Op.cit.
   13
   Краткий психологический словарь. – Ростов-на-Дону: «ФЕНИКС». Л.А.Карпенко, А.В.Петровский, М. Г. Ярошевский. 1998. (rus)
   14
   Here and later in the text, original spelling and syntax were preserved.
   15
   Hale, Alisahib Erogul, Baku.«Tekhnur», 2011 г. 608 p. http://azerichild.info/HALE. pdf (az)
   16
   Events related to the tragic deaths of Meskhetian Turks near the city of Aghdam in 1992, which are interpreted differently by Armenian and Azerbaijani sides.
   17
   İçimdəki erməni, Mirmekhti Agaoghlu, http://www.kulis.az/ xeber_İçimdəki_erməni__4572.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/516a38d8 (az)
   18
   Почебут Л. Г. Кросс-культурная этническая психология. Учебное пособие, 1 издание, 2012, 336 р. (rus)
   19
   Кенан Гулузаде. Моя первая ненависть. 1news.az. 26.04.2013. http://1news.az/authors/142/20130426033057752.html (rus)
   20
   «Эхо Сумгайыта». Азад Шариф. 25.01.2007. Зеркало. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/8f193140 (rus)
   21
   Умуд Хазар. К войне. Kultura.az. 23.10.2012. http://kultura.az/articles.php?item_id=20121022070442617&sec_id=46 (az)
   22
   Жмуров В.А. Большая энциклопедия по психиатрии, 2-е изд, 2012. (rus)
   23
   Психоаналитические термины и понятия Словарь. Под ред. Борнесса Э. Мура и Бернарда Д. Фаина, Москва «Класс» 2000 (rus)
   24
   Свои пороки в других я вижу. Misinformative.info. http://misinformative.info/?p=1923 (rus)
   25
   Сиявуш Новрузов: «У некоторых правозащитников Азербайджана имеется примесь армянской крови». Day.az. 23.02.2008. http://news.day.az/society/109257.html (rus)
   26
   Анар Мамедханов – армян надо убивать в Карабахе. Day.az. 08.03.2004. http://news.day.az/politics/5101.html (rus)
   27
   Hay is a self-designation of Armenians.
   28
   Алекпер Алекперов. «Будьте осторожны!!! Армяне/хаи – этнос-разрушитель». Карабах в документах http://karabakh-doc.azerall.info/ru/armyanstvo/arm5.htm (rus)
   29
   Вугар Гасанов. «Азербайджанский солдат погиб в день казанской встречи президентов», статья. 04.07.2011. Vesti.az. http://vesti.az/news/82012 (rus)
   30
   Вердербер Р., Вердербер К. Психология общения. – СПб, 2003, глоссарий по книге. (rus)
   31
   Крылов Альберт. «Психология: учебник (2 е издание)»: Издательство Проспект; 2005 (rus)
   32
   Op.cit.
   33
   Op.cit.
   34
   Оксфордский толковый словарь по психологии, Под ред. А.Ребера, 2002. (rus)
   35
   For more information, see the chapter Dehumanization and Demonization of Armenians.
   36
   Rwanda: A Brief History of the Country,Сайт ООН. http://www.un.org/en/ preventgenocide/rwanda/education/rwandagenocide.shtml (en)
   37
   Yelena Sinyavskaya– Russian historian, doctor of history, professor, leading researcher at the Institute of Russian History of the Russian Academy of Sciences. She specialized in the military history of the twentieth century, social history, alltagsgeschichte, historical psychology, military psychology and military sociology. She is the founder and leader of the scientific discipline called Military and historical anthropology and psychology.
   38
   Психология войны в 20 веке: Исторический опыт России. – М.: Российская политическая энциклопедия (РОССПЭН), 1999. – 383 p. (rus)
   39
   Хоруженко В. А. Концепты «война» и «враг» в современной русскоязычной публицистике. автореф. дис. канд. фил. наук / МИУ. – М.: МГИ, 2010. – 20p. (rus)
   40
   Президент Ильхам Алиев: «По всей стране осуществляются программы развития, и бакинские поселки также не должны остаться в стороне от них». Day.az. 21.04.2011. http://news.day.az/politics/263203.html (rus)
   41
   Т. Адорно. Р. Невитт Сэнфорд, Э. Френкель-Брюнсвик, Д. Дж. Левинсон Исследование авторитарной личности. Под общей редакцией д. филос. н. В.П. Култыгина, перевод Л. К. Латышева – М.: Серебряные нити, Академия исследования культуры, 2001. (rus)
   42
   Гейдар Алиев – созидатель независимого Азербайджана. статья. 1news.az. 15.06.2012. http://1news.az/analytics/20120615102518817.html (rus)
   43
   Архангородский, М. Любовь нечаянно нагрянет… (О психологии личности при тоталитарных и автократических режимах): Книга-хрестоматия http://proza.ru/2011/10/28/1769 (rus)
   44
   Айтен Алиева. «Культ личности» или «народная любовь»? Баку, для BBCrussian.com 19.12.2003. http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/russian/news/ newsid_3331000/3331965.stm (rus)
   45
   Арлин Одергон. «Отель «Война». Психологическая динамика вооруженных конфликтов» – М: 2008. (rus)
   46
   Крысько В.Г. Секреты психологической войны (цели, задачи, методы, формы, опыт), Мн.: Харвест, 1999. – 448 p. (rus)
   47
   Нежданов И. Ю. Аналитическая разведка для бизнеса. Издательство: Ось-89, Москва, 2008 г, 336 p. (rus)
   48
   О роли дезинформации в современных конфликтах и войнах ч. 1. Полковник Серов. http://pentagonus.ru/publ/o_roli_dezinformacii_v_sovremennykh_konfliktakh_i_vojnakh/102-1-0-1855 (rus)
   49
   UN Security Council resolutions No. 822 (1993) of 30 April 1993, No. 853 (1993) of 29 July 1993, No. 874 (1993) of 14 October 1993 and No. 884 (1993) of 12 November 1993.
   50
   Политолог Мубариз Ахмедоглу: «Нагорно-карабахский конфликт может урегулировать только ООН». Day.az. 4.10.2012. http://news.day.az/politics/358803.html (rus)
   51
   Владимир Казимиров. «Карабах и резолюции Совета Безопасности ООН». http://www.vn.kazimirov.ru/k100.htm (rus)
   52
   Продажа Арменией органов азербайджанских военнопленных недопустима – ВОЗ. Trend.az.13. 09. 2011. http://www.trend.az/news/karabakh/1930887.html (rus)
   53
   ВОЗ осуждает незаконную трансплантацию органов. APA. 13.09.2011. http://ru.apa.az/news/202135 (rus)
   54
   Ричард Морнингстар: «Выращивание наркотиков на оккупированных территориях – правда». Salamnews. 14.06.2013. http://salamnews.org/ru/news/read/79880/richard-morningstar-laquovirashivanie-narkotikov-na-okkupirovannix-territoriyax-pravdaraquonbspnbsp/ (rus)
   55
   Татьяна Чаладзе подала в суд на Эйнуллу Фатуллаева за клевету о Ходжалинской трагедии. APA.az. 1.02.2007. http://news.bakililar.az/news_tatyana_chaladze_podala_5045.html (now Aze.az) (rus)
   56
   Ex-president of Armenia. 1998–2008.
   57
   Day.az.Житель Ходжалы: «Во время Ходжалинского геноцида меня пытал Роберт Кочарян», 22.02.2007. http://news.day.az/politics/71401.html (rus)
   58
   Rambler.ru.Армянский католикос Гарегин II такой же террорист и кровопийца, как глава государства Серж Саргсян. 11.11.2011 г. http://news.rambler.ru/11764381/ (rus)
   59
   Молодежная организация правящей партии призывает изгнать Рустама Ибрагимбекова и Акрама Айлисли из Азербайджана. Haqqin.az. 29.04.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/5413 (rus)
   60
   Виктор Каган. Homo xenophobicus: психология «своего и чужого». Национальный Психологический Журнал № 2, 2011 г. Издательство: Московский государственный университет им. М.В.Ломоносова (Факультет психологии) (Москва) статья в журнале – научная статья. Pages: 40–45, (rus)
   61
   Федор Лукьянов, главный редактор журнала «Россия в глобальной политике». Первый и неразрешимый. Статья. 02.08.2011 г. http://vz.ru/opinions/2011/8/2/511811/p2/ (rus)
   62
   At the beginning of the twentieth century, shaping of this identity occurred around the confessional core of“Muslims” or the ethnic core of “Caucasian Tatars”, while the process of ethnic consolidation around the ethnonym “Azerbaijani” was initiated as late as in the 1930s.
   63
   It is incorrect to employ the ethnonym of“Azerbaijani” with reference to the pre-Soviet period, however, we must use this term for the sake of clarity.
   64
   Azerbaijani educator and publicist.
   65
   Ева-Мария Аух. Между приспособлением и самоутверждением. Ранний этап поисков национальной идентичности в среде мусульманской интеллигенции и возникновение нового общества на юго-восточном Кавказе (1875–1905 гг.), http://old.sakharov-center.ru/publications/azrus/az_003.htm, (rus)
   66
   The Muslim community.
   67
   Ordan-Burdan, Uzeyir Hajibekov, http://uzeyir.musigi-dunya.az/az/publicism_70. html (az)
   68
   Mirza Alakbar Sabir,Избранные произведения, Издательство «Советский писатель», 1983, http://azeribooks.narod.ru/poezia/sabir/sabir_izbrannoe.htm (rus)
   69
   А. Казинян. «Полигон Азербайджан». Ереван, 2011 г. Центр общественной связи и информации. 611 p. (rus)
   70
   Т. Варданян. Азербайджанцы. История одного неоконченного этнопроекта. Москва 2012. p. 51–52 (rus)
   71
   Гюлханданян Абраам. Армяно-татарские столкновения. Т. 1 – Париж, 1933. p. 175–176 (rus)
   72
   «Кавказское слово», № 262, 1918 (rus)
   73
   Б.Л. Байте. Воспоминания о революции в Закавказье (1918–1920 гг.). Опубл. в сб.: «Архив русской революции», т. IX, Берлин 1923 г. (Издатель Г.В. Гессен). See also: «Голос Армении», 6 апреля 2005 г. (rus)
   74
   РГАСПИ, ф. 64, оп. 1, д. 19, л. 9. Заверенная копия. Б. Барсегов. Нагорный Карабах в международном праве и мировой политике. Документы и комментарии. Том 1. М, Кругъ, 2008. (rus)
   75
   Dozens of letters have survived in which Mirza Fatali Akhundzadeh (Akhundov) asks his Armenian friend Mirza Malkam Khan, a prominent educator and reformer, founder of the Iranian drama, publicist and diplomat, to create an alphabet for his wretched people. In a letter dated March 8 1871, he writes:“Please, keep all my letters from the very first to the very last and compile them into a book. After we are gone, these letters will become notable historical documents for future generations”&lt;…&gt;“With your idea to create and reform the alphabet you fulfilled your duty to the humanity and cultural development. The history will keep your name, and our descendants will remember it with gr atitude and respect”. Axundovun erməni əsilli mütəfəkkir dostu, http://dilqemehmed.wordpress.com/2013/02/03/axundovun-erməni-əslli-mutəfəkkir-dostu/ (az)
   76
   Мирза Алекпер Сабир, Избранные произведения, Издательство «Советский писатель», 1983, http://azeribooks.narod.ru/poezia/sabir/sabir_izbrannoe.htm (rus)
   77
   A line from the poem“Glory to Thee, my Lord!”
   78
   Ibid.
   79
   Алиев Г.А. Мужественный борец за дело Ленина, за коммунизм. К 100-летию со дня рождения С.Г. Шаумяна. Доклад на торжественном собрании, посвященном 100-летию со дня рождения С.Г. Шаумяна. Баку. 11 октября 1978 года. Баку. 1978. p.16. (rus)
   80
   «Бакинский рабочий» 11 февраля 1999 года (rus)
   81
   Гейдар Алиев: «Государство с оппозицией лучше» «Эхо» от 24 июля 2002 г. № 138 (383), http://echo-az.com/archive/2002_07/383/facts.shtml#11 (rus)
   82
   Вахид Гази. Размышления о геноциде. Mediaforum.az. 05.03.2010. http://www.mediaforum.az/az/2010/03/05/şahmat-taxtasinda-beysbol-oyunu-035208469c04.html (az)
   83
   Лебедь А.И. За державу обидно… – М.: «Московская правда», 1995. «Военная литература»: http://militera.lib.ru/memo/russian/lebed_ai/index.html (rus)
   84
   На цистернах было написано: «Поздравляем с землетрясением! Желаем повторения!». Интервью. Голос Армении. № 92 (20165) 6.09.2011. http://golosarmenii.am/ru/20165/home/13141/ (rus)
   85
   Клише антиармянской пропаганды идентичны антиеврейским… Голос Армении № 51 (20404). 16.05.2013. http://golosarmenii.am/ru/20404/world/26789/ (rus)
   86
   Azadlığı istəmirəm Zərrə-zərrə, qram-qram. Elpress.az. 08.08. 2010. http://elpress.az/index.php?option=com_content&id=1043:azadl-istmirm-zrr-zrr-qram-qram-&catid=116:er&Itemid=304 (az)
   87
   Полонский А. Ислам в контексте общественной жизни современного Азербайджана. Газета «История». № 28/1999. Издательский дом «Первое сентября». http://his.1september.ru/1999/his28.htm (rus)
   88
   Шнирельман Виктор. Войны памяти: мифы, идентичность и политика в Закавказье. – М.: Академкнига, 2003. С. 216–222 (rus)
   89
   Фарида Мамедова и перевернутые надгробья. Misinformative.info. http:// misinformative.info/?p=961 (rus)
   90
   Фарида Мамедова. «История Кавказской Албании» http://bakililar.az/ca/photos/dashsalahli.html (rus)
   91
   Фарида Мамедова и перевернутые надгробья. Misinformative.info. http://misinformative.info/?p=961 (rus)
   92
   Gandzasar (Arm.«Գանձասար», literally a mountain of treasures, Gandzasar Monastery) is an outstanding Armenian cultural monument, an active monastery of the Armenian Apostolic Church, on the left bank of Khachen river near the village of Vank, Nagorno-Karabakh. The Armenian Catholicos Anania Mokatsi first mentioned Gandzasar in the mid-10th century. Prince Hasan-Jalal Dawla, “a pious, devout and humble man of Armenian descent” built the currently known church on the site of the old one mentioned back in the 10th century and consecrated it in a solemn ceremony on July 22, 1240. According to legend, the head of John the Baptist severed at the behest of Herod rests in the burial vault of the church brought here from Cilician Armenia during one of the Crusades; therefore, the church got the name of Surb Hovhannes Mkrtich (St. John the Baptist).
   93
   Азербайджанский ученый рассказала об истинном происхождении армян Карабаха. ст. Day.az. 6.03.2012. http://news.day.az/politics/319932.html (rus)
   94
   Академия мошенников. Voskanapat.info. http://voskanapat.info/?p=83 (rus)
   95
   His real surname was Movsisyan. Armenian writer and playwright, the first people’s writer of Azerbaijan
   96
   Ordan-Burdan, Uzeyir Hajibekov, http://uzeyir.musigi-dunya.az/az/publicism_70. html (az)
   97
   Cəlil Məmmədquluzadə. Axund ilə keşişin vəzi. Azadliq.org 27.02.2010. http://www.azadliq.org/content/article/1970188.html (az)
   98
   Выступление по телевидению 19 ноября 1988. (rus)
   99
   А. Казинян. «Полигон Азербайджан». Ереван, 2011 г. Центр общественной связи и информации. 611 p. (rus)
   100
   Op.cit.
   101
   МП, 11.02.1990; см. также А.Каменев, «Детонатор спокойствия» (rus)
   102
   “lads” (distorted Armenian word)
   103
   İçimdəki erməni, Mirmekhti Agaoghlu, http://www.kulis.az/ xeber_İçimdəki_erməni__4572.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/516a38d8 (az)
   104
   Ermənilər və müsəlmanlar, Fəxrəddin Hacıbəyli, http://kulis.az/xeber_ Ermənilər_və_müsəlmanlar__3654.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/66d78b41 (az)
   105
   Sevil Huseynova. Ethnicity As Social Status And Stigma: Armenians In Post-Soviet Baku. Published by Heinrich Böll Foundation http://ge.boell.org/downloads/Sevil.pdf (en)
   106
   Зияфет Аскеров, первый вице-спикер парламент. Армяне в Азербайджане не сталкиваются с проблемами религиозной и этнической нетерпимости. Trend. 2.05.2008. http://trend.az/news/politics/1190225.html (rus)
   107
   Араз Ализаде: «Власти Армении двуличны и продажны». 28. 01.2011. Day.Az http://news.day.az/politics/250207.html (rus)
   108
   Эльнур Асланов: «Для нас информационная война – это национальная идея, для армян же генетическая неприязнь». 1news.az. 24.01.2011. http://1news.az/interview/20110124110955665.html (rus)
   109
   Депутат Ганира Пашаева обратилась с призывом к ПАСЕ. Trend. 27.01.2011. http://news.day.az/politics/250223.html (rus)
   110
   Юнусов А. Этнический состав Азербайджана (по переписи 1999 года). Опубликовано на сайте Института этнологии и антропологии РАН. 12.03.01. http://demoscope.ru/weekly/2004/0183/analit05.php (rus)
   111
   Ethnic composition of Azerbaijan 2009. Tim Bespyatov, 2008–2013. http://popstat.mashke.org/azerbaijan-ethnic2009.htm (en)
   112
   «Новое Время». N2234 (136), 22 декабря суббота, 2012 (rus)
   113
   Sevil Huseynova. Ethnicity As Social Status And Stigma: Armenians In Post-Soviet Baku. Published by Heinrich Böll Foundation http://ge.boell.org/downloads/Sevil.pdf (en)
   114
   Ibid
   115
   Ibid
   116
   Sevil Huseinova (op. cit.):“Another woman said that she felt ashamed if someone in the street pointed a finger at her and called her Armenian. This sense of shame resulted in an urge to change one’s appearance, which, for example, took the form of dying one’s hair in bright colors, to emphasize the ‘Russian origin’. Also, they changed their names and middle names, so that these could sound more familiar to the local ear,” writes the author.
   117
   Лиана-Лейла: «Не жалею, что осталась в Азербайджане». Туран. 04.02.2011, http://contact.az/docs/2011/Want%20to%20Say/101000027296ru.htm (rus)
   118
   Азербайджанцев в Армении сегодня немало, более того, живут они даже в Арцахе, и живут вполне неплохо. Panarmenian.net. 1 октября 2011. http://panarmenian.net/rus/news/79741/ (rus)
   119
   Хочу, чтобы все вернулись в Баку. Туран. 15.02.2011, http://contact.az/docs/2011/Want%20to%20Say/101000027794ru.htm (rus)
   120
   В Баку начали выдавать удостоверения личности армянам. Salamnews. org. 20.11.12. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/39891/v-baku-nachali-vidavat-udostovereniya-lichnosti-armyanam/ (rus)
   121
   In plain language, they seized her apartment and kicked her out.
   122
   В Азербайджане армянка подала в суд на управление полиции. APA. 06.05.2009. http://ru.apa.az/news_В_Азербайджане__армянка__134223.html. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep. us/258209cb (rus)

   Марк Григорян. И снова о кладбище в Баку. Блог. 27.10.2007, http://markgrigorian.livejournal.com/68275.html (rus)
   124
   Эльвира Мовсесян. Человек ниоткуда. Туран. 02.03.2011, http://contact.az/docs/2011/Want to Say/101000028384ru.htm (rus)
   125
   Researchers but not propagandists. The report of 30,000 remained without confirmation, but for quoting some representatives of the Azerbaijani authorities with no reference to census data or findings of any specific studies.
   126
   В Баку спасатели МЧС обнаружили труп пожилой армянки. 1news.az. 28.06.2013. http://1news.az/society/incidents/20130628035437816.html (rus)
   127
   ECRIобеспокоена судьбой этнических армян, живущих в Азербайджане. 1 июня 2011. Xenophobia prevention initiative http://stopxenophobia.org/?p=2366 (rus)
   128
   According to the census of 1999, there were 120,700 Armenians living in Azerbaijan. According to the Azerbaijani officials, this figure includes the population of the Nagorno-Karabakh territory, which, they think, amounts to 120,000. According to the official data of Azerbaijan, 700 Armenians actually live in the republic. However, the ECRI report at the same time argues with reference to Azerbaijani officials that the actual number of Armenians amounts to 30,000 persons.
   129
   Более 30 проживающих в Баку армян обратились для получения удостоверений личности – правозащитник. SalamNews, 12.12.12. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/45587/bolee-30-projivayushix-v-baku-armyan-obratilis-dlya-polucheniya-udostovereniy-lichnosti-pravozashitniknbsp/ (rus)
   130
   74 yaşlı qadın erməni atalığından imtina edir. Bizimyol.info, 25.10.2012, http://www.bizimyol.info/?sehife=1&xeber=4071 (az)
   131
   Бакинские армяне – враги или союзники? Day.az. 18. 05.2006. http://news.day. az/politics/49002.html (rus)
   132
   Təhsil sahəsində biabirçi fakt. Pia.az. 24.04.11. http://pia.az/index. php?l=az&m=news&id=9108, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/82af0323 (az)
   133
   Çinarə Vüqar. «Böyük Ermənistan» arzusu ilə bizim acizliyimiz. Gundelikbaku.06.11.12. http://gundelik-baku.com/index.php?newsid=9048 (az)
   134
   Günel Mehdi. Qarı düşmən dost olmaz. Gundelik-baku. 5.03.13. http://gundelikbaku.com/index.php?newsid=11555 (az)
   135
   Анжела Элибегова. Необдуманный пропагандистский миф о тысячах армян в Азербайджане может посадить Баку в лужу. Комментарий. Panorama.am. 10.12.12. http://panorama.am/ru/interviews/2012/12/10/elibegova/ (rus)
   136
   Çinarə Vüqar.Ehtiyatlı olun, Bakıda azərbaycanlılar var. Gundelik-baku. http://gundelik-baku.com/index.php?newsid=6527. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/5e82df4b (az)
   137
   Heydər Babayevin sürücüsü erməni imiş. Gunxeber. 03.04.2012. http://gunxeber.com/?p=3606 (az)
   138
   TofiqƏhmədli.»Səfər Əbiyev azərbaycan türklərinə qarşi repressiyalara başlayib». Musavat. 03.09.2011. http://musavat.com/new/gündəm/səfər-əbiyev-azərbaycan-türklərinə-qarşi-repressiyalara-başlayib_107344.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here:http://www.peeep.us/22077811(az)
   139
   Азербайджанский форум Disput.az. post#33. http://disput.az/index.php?showtopic=355910 (rus)
   140
   Встреча Президента Азербайджанской Республики Гейдара Алиева в Президентском дворце с журналистами Грузии и Армении, принимающими участие в конференции, проводимой в Баку в рамках проекта «Поддержка медиа» Женевским институтом строительства демократии – 1 июля 1999 года. Газета “Бакинский рабочий”, 3 июня 1999 года, http://library.aliyev-heritage.org/ru/3896660.html. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/4e40ed7d (rus)
   141
   В Азербайджане будет применен новый механизм присвоения имен. Trend. 14.07.2010. http://trend.az/news/society/1720536.html (rus)
   142
   Новый механизм присвоения имен в Азербайджане не нарушает права человека – директор института. Trend. 23.08.2010. http://trend.az/news/society/1739424.html (rus)
   143
   Никто не вправе ставить запрет на выбор имен. «Эхо» Общественнополитическая газета. 16.03.2013, Ср, № 76 (2998). http://echo.az/article.php?aid=37590 (rus)
   144
   Низами Джафаров: «Каждый, кто считает себя азербайджанцем, должен будет поменять свою фамилию». 1news.az. 12.02.12. http://turkelpress.com/?p=380 (rus)
   145
   Armenian male name meaning‘firstborn’.
   146
   The European variants: Zoroaster, Zarathustra
   147
   Etnonym of a people which were the ancestors of modern Talysh and Cadusians and once inhabited the Caspian Sea region
   148
   Тренер «Кяпяз» оконфузился, вызвав в Азербайджан футболистов армянского происхождения. Aze.az. 25.07.2011. http://aze.az/news_trener_kyapyaz_okonfuzilsya_62899.html (rus)
   149
   Армянскую делегацию не пустили на Генеральную Ассамблею ЕВС в Баку. Panorama.am. 01.07.2010. http://panorama.am/ru/society/2010/07/01/baqu-delegation/ (rus)
   150
   Представителя сотовой компании Казахстана задержали на таможне в Азербайджане. Tengrinews.kz. 20.11.2012. http://tengrinews.kz/events/predstavitelya-sotovoy-kompanii-kazahstana-zaderjali-na-tamojne-v-azerbaydjane-223789/ (rus)
   151
   Задержанный в бакинском аэропорту азербайджанец рассказал, как и почему он посетил Армению. Vesti.az. 21.11.2012. http://vesti.az/news/137618/ (rus)
   152
   It is impossible to cross the border from the territory of Azerbaijan since the passage is mined, and Azerbaijan neither controls the territory of the self-proclaimed Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, nor recognizes it considering it a part of its own lands.
   153
   Концерт Киркорова в Баку отменен. РИА-новости. 25.10.12. http://ria.ru/culture/20121025/906848449.html (rus)
   154
   Суфьян Жемухов, политолог. Как спецслужбы помогли разобраться с моим именем. Радиостанция «Эхо Москвы». 09.12.12. Блог. http://echo.msk.ru/blog/word/964766-echo/ (rus)
   155
   Зураб Двали, журналист. Белаканский тупик или «убирайтесь отсюда!». Apsny.ge 07.05.2012. http://apsny.ge/articles/1336452027.php (rus)
   156
   Из Азербайджана депортировали журналистку агентства Bloomberg. Lenta.ru. 29.06.2011. http://wap.lenta.ru/news/2011/06/29/markos/ (rus)
   157
   Али Гасанов: «Неконструктивность Армении мешает сдвинуть переговоры с мертвой точки». Day.az. 29.06.2011. http://news.day.az/politics/275954.html (rus)
   158
   A citizen of Russian Federation, Sergey Gyurjian, was prevented from boarding a plane of the Azerbaijani airlines at Domodedovo Airport. He was given to understand that he was refused boarding because of his Armenian surname.
   159
   Azal erməni məsələsinə aydinliq gətirdi. Musavat. 01.11.2011. http://musavat.com/news/gündəm/azal-erməni-məsələsinə-aydinliq-gətirdi_111348.html (az)
   160
   Отчеством не вышел. «Взгляд» Деловая газета. 29.10.2011. http://vz.ru/society/2011/10/29/534474.html (rus)
   161
   Фамилию признали нелетной. Газета «Коммерсантъ», № 204/П (4745), 31.10.2011. http://kommersant.ru/doc/1807171/print (rus)
   162
   Widespread rounding practice in Azerbaijan
   163
   Власти Азербайджана отказали Ричарду Киракосяну в выдаче визы и объявили его «нежелательной» персоной. Panorama.am. 19.09.2012. http://panorama.am/ru/society/2012/03/19/azerbaijan-kirakosyan-viza/ (rus)
   164
   «Мы сами решаем, кому выдавать визу, а кому нет». Эхо. № 239(1479) Чт, 28.12.2006. http://www.echo-az.com/archive/2006_12/1479/politica02.shtml (rus)
   165
   Ibid
   166
   Ibid
   167
   Светлана Лобода – запрет в Азербайджане! Trend. 14.11.009, http://trend.az/ life/culture/1580385.html (rus)
   168
   Allahşükür Paşazadə Barak Obamanı kilsələrə getdiyi kimi, məscid və sinaqoqlara da baş çəkməyə çağırdı. Merkes.az. 27.09.2011. http://merkez.az/allahsukur-pasazadə-barak-obamani-kilsələrə-getdiyi-kimi-məscid-və-sinaqoqlara-da-bas-cəkməyə-cagirdi.html. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/4708f9a0 (az)
   169
   «Интересы государства превыше всего. Газета «Эхо». Июнь 2011 года. http://arx.echo.az/index.php?aid=14030 (rus)
   170
   Arzuolunmaz Shexslerin Siyahisi-2013. MFA.gov.az. 02.08.2013. http://mfa.gov.az/files/file/Arzuolunmaz%20Shexslerin%20Siyahisi-2013.pdf (az)
   171
   Азербайджан включит в список нежелательных лиц американского и швейцарского астронавтов. 1news.az. 18.09.2012. http://1news.az/politics/karabakh/20120918054736620.html (rus)
   172
   МИД Азербайджана было проинформировано касательно визита журналиста «The Washington Post» в Нагорный Карабах. Apa.az. 11.07.11. http://ru.apa.az/print/197828 (rus)
   173
   МИД Азербайджана опубликовал список лиц, являющихся персонами нон грата в республике. 1news.az. 02.08.2013. http://1news.az/politics/20130802064454258. html (rus)
   174
   The denial of the toponym Khankendi in favor of Stepanakert gives in itself sufficient grounds for blacklisting.
   175
   М.Ахвледиани: «Меня действительно задержали в аэропорту Бина». Haqqin. az. 23.05.2013. http://haqqin.az/comics/6015 (rus)
   176
   Если Euronews нарушает принципы демократии, это не значит, что и мы должны также поступать. Azeri.ru. 07.12.2009. http://azeri.ru/papers/echo-az_ info/57477/ (rus)
   177
   Азербайджанские пограничники не пропустили популярного российского певца. Vesti.az 28.10.2011. http://vesti.az/news/94564/news.php?id=105193 (rus)
   178
   Катя Лель больше не в «черном списке» МИД Азербайджана. Azeritoday.com. 27.12.2010. http://azeritoday.com/archives/22843 (rus)
   179
   Председатель Союза писателей Грузии объявлена персоной нон-грата в Азербайджане. 1news.az. 4.12.2012. http://1news.az/politics/20121204061046660.html (rus)
   180
   «Черный список» Азербайджана. Зеркало. 21.10.2010. http://www.archive.n.zerkalo.az/2010-10-21/politics (rus)
   181
   Армяне пытаются лишить нас известных деятелей искусства. Anspress.com. 27.12.2010. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=78733 (rus)
   182
   «Репортеры без границ»: Недопустимо составление черных списков журналистов в Азербайджане. Panorama.am. 07.07.2011. http://panorama.am/ru/region/2011/07/07/reporters-without-borders/ (rus)
   183
   Милрад Фатуллаев задержан в Баку. FLNKA. 25.03.2013. http://flnka.ru/glav_lenta/1749-milrad-fatullaev-zaderzhan-v-baku.html (rus)
   184
   Как после посещения Армении и Карабаха я въезжал в Азербайджан. Живой Журнал. 21.04.2011. http://puerrtto.livejournal.com/152718.html (rus)
   185
   Arzuolunmaz Shexslerin Siyahisi-2013. MFA.gov.az. 02.08.2013, http://mfa.gov.az/files/file/Arzuolunmaz%20Shexslerin%20Siyahisi-2013.pdf (az)
   186
   МИД Азербайджана опубликовал список лиц, являющихся персонами нон грата в республике.1news.az. 02.08.2013, http://1news.az/politics/20130802064454258.html (rus)
   187
   Рустам Ибрагимбеков еще раз доказал свою связь с армянами – депутат. Trend.az. 30.07.2013. http://www.trend.az/news/politics/2175555.html (rus)
   188
   Дружба азербайджанцев с армянами на Одноклассниках. ру – предательство или сохранение человеческого облика в нечеловеческих условиях. Trend. 07.01.2009. http://trend.az/life/socium/1389959.html (rus)
   189
   Азербайджанским журналистам запрещено общаться с армянскими коллегами даже в Интернете. Panorama. 25.01.2012. http://ucnoqta.az/ana_sehife/46159.html the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://panorama.am/ru/society/2012/01/25/azer-journalists/ (rus)
   190
   Erməni dərgisini Azərbaycanda kim təbliğ edir?. Aznews.az. 06.10.2012. http://aznews.az/news.php?id=7699 (az)
   191
   “Sərt Məntiq” Səadət Məmmədova ilə: xalq şairi Vaqif Səmədoğlu. Yurd.Tv. 24.12.2011. http://yurd.tv/articles/20111224165757602.html (az)
   192
   Народные артисты осудили азербайджанку. Trend. 28.07.2009. http://trend.az/life/culture/1513301.html (rus)
   193
   Фотографии Айнишан Гулиевой в обнимку с армянским певцом подняли шумиху в Интернете. Aze.az. 02.08.2011. http://aze.az/news_fotoqrafii_aynishan_guliev_63427.html (rus)
   194
   The same Iranian-speaking ethnic group differing in religious self-identification, translator’s note.
   195
   Таджир Шахмалыоглу: певец, с которым я спел в дуэте, не армянин. Aze.az. 05.04.2011. http://aze.az/news_tajir_shaxmalyoqlu_pevec_55198.html (rus)
   196
   Певицу азербайджанского происхождения не пускает в Баку ее бойфренд армянин. Day.Az. 12.01.2011. http://news.day.az/society/247553.html (rus)
   197
   Ягуб Зуруфчу: «Гугуш не гордится тем, что она азербайджанка!». 1news.az. 06.10.2012. http://1news.az/bomond/bomaz/20121006022930586.html (rus)
   198
   Известная певица азербайджанского происхождения готовится к поездке в Армению. Azeritoday. 11.01.2011. http://azeritoday.com/archives/23173 (rus)
   199
   Сказка о сиамских близнецах. Zerkalo.az, 13.04.2012, http://archive.n.zerkalo.az/2012-04-13/politics/28618-read (rus)
   200
   Кабельное телевидение KATV1 не покажет передачу «День независимости. Армения» Day.az. 20.09.2010. http://news.day.az/hitech/229511.html (rus)
   201
   Агент по продаже билетов азербайджанской компании уволена за принадлежность к армянской нации. Новый регион. 08.01.2009. http://nr2.ru/incidents/214903.html (rus)
   202
   В Азербайджане функционирует компания, совладельцем которого является армянин. Anspress. 10.07.2012. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=160115 (rus)
   203
   Как относятся граждане Азербайджана к компаниям бизнесменов из Армении, функционирующим в Азербайджане? 1news.az. 17.09.2012. http://1news.az/society/20120917123248540.html (rus)
   204
   Наложен запрет на фильм, представляющий армян в положительном свете. Anspress. 05.03.2011. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=89628 (rus)
   205
   В Грузии азербайджанцы снялись в армянской комедии? Vesti. 08.12.2011. http://vesti.az/news/99187/news.php?id=121068 (rus)
   206
   В Азербайджане суд не удовлетворил иск уволенного с гостелевидения журналиста. Kavkaz Uzel. 03.11.2010. http://kavkaz-uzel.ru/articles/176441/ (rus)
   207
   Азербайджанским музыкантам запретили играть в совместном ансамбле вместе с армянскими и грузинскими коллегами. Day.az. 04.10.2007. http://news.day.az/culture/94187.html (rus)
   208
   Спецслужбы вызвали на допрос азербайджанцев, голосовавших на Евровидении за Армению. Inosmi.ru. 09.08.2009. http://inosmi.ru/sngbaltia/20090819/251734.html (rus)
   209
   Ağalar İdrisoğlu: «Cənnət Səlimova baş rejissor vəzifəsindən çıxarılmalıdır!» ANSPRESS. 09.01.2012. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=az&nid=133599 (az)
   210
   Nicat Kazımov: “Cənnət Səlimovanın tamaşaları sionist mövqelidir”. Deyerler.org. 09.09.2010. http://deyerler.org/63180-nicat-kazimov-vcennet-selimovanin-tamasalari-sionist-movqelidir.html (az)
   211
   Задержание Ибрагимбекова – заказ верховного главнокомандующего? Turan. 30.12.2012. http://contact.az/docs/2012/Politics/123000023444ru.htm // the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/10ffe23c(rus)
   212
   Каждый гражданин Азербайджана должен ненавидеть подход, мышление и идеологию Рустама Ибрагимбекова – правящая партия. Trend. 10.04.2013. http://trend.az/news/politics/2137618.htm (rus)
   213
   Председателя ПНФА уличили в связях с армянами. Day.az. 07.01.2013. http://news.day.az/politics/376310.html (rus)
   214
   Депутат обвинил оппозицию в связях с армянами. Zerkalo.az. 02.03.2010, http://archive.n.zerkalo.az/2010-03-02/short-news/7534-fazailagamali-armeniya-dengi (rus)
   215
   Azərbaycan ordusunda erməni general. Hurriyyet.net. 22.08.2011, http://hurriyyet.net/?p=4535 the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/45cd3644 (az)
   216
   МВД Нахчывана распространило заявление о члене ОП Ибрагиме Ибрагимли. Salamnews.org. 11.04.2013. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/68449/mvd-naxchivana-rasprostranilo-zayavlenie-o-chlene-op-ibragime-ibragimli/ (rus)
   217
   Social Media in the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict. Netprophet.org. 17.04.2013. http://netprophet.tol.org/2013/04/17/social-media-in-the-armenia-azerbaijan-conflict/ (en)
   218
   Натиг Расулзаде прокомментировал скандальное высказывание Эдуарда Багирова. Day.az. 24.04.2013. http://news.day.az/society/398009.html (rus)
   219
   Граждане Азербайджана, сотрудничающие с какой-либо организацией Армении, будут привлекаться к уголовной ответственности. Apa.az, 17.05.2013, http://ru.apa.az/news/247628 (rus)
   220
   Парламент опроверг подготовку закона об оккупированных территориях. Contact.az, 22.05.2013, http://www.contact.az/docs/2013/Politics/052000036872ru.htm // the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/d7ac1286 (rus)
   221
   Сказка о сиамских близнецах. Zerkalo.az, 13.04.2012, http://archive.n.zerkalo.az/2012-04-13/politics/28618-read (rus)
   222
   Xədicə İsmayılovanın «Ermənilərə səs» vermək «təkzib» i BayBək, Bir Millətin səsi. 28.08.2009. http://azr.baybak.com/il_2009_say_5359.azr (az)
   223
   Yeni Azərbaycan. Xədicə İsmayılovadan nə yazdı?. Azxeber. 14.03.2012. http://azxeber.com/news/14256.htm (az)
   224
   Как стать геем, масоном и армянином. Часть третья. epress.am.04.12.2013. http://epress.am/ru/2013/04/12/Как-стать-геем-масоном-и-армянином-Час. html (rus)
   225
   Али Гасанов: «Национальные интересы Азербайджана для каждого из нас должны стать «красной чертой», принципами, которые нельзя переступить и нарушить». АПА.23.04.2013. http://ru.apa.az/news/245962 (rus)
   226
   «Мать Ильгара Рагимова была армянкой». Haqqin.az. 20.02.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/3983 (rus)
   227
   Хафиз Гаджиев назовет имена чиновников и их любовниц. Haqqin.az. 24.04.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/5286 (rus)
   228
   Бабушка Гюляр Ахмедовой армянка. Olaylar.az.12.10.2012. http://www.olaylar.az/news/russian/15133 (rus)
   229
   Gülər Əhmədova: “iki qardaşı necə döydümsə, birinin ürəyi getdi”. Lent.az. 20.08.2011. http://news.lent.az/news/72766 (az)
   230
   Несогласных похороним. Haqqin.az. 01.02.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/3533 (rus)
   231
   Yaqub Eyyubovu Niyə «Erməniləşdirdilər»?. Musavat. 30.09.2012. http://musavat.com/news/ölkə/yaqub-eyyubovu-niyə-erməniləşdirdilər_133611.html (az)
   232
   В азербайджанском сегменте сети Facebook формируется координационный центр – доступ к сети в регионах ограничен. ИА Регнум.04.03.2011. http://pda.regnum.ru/news/1380290.html (rus)
   233
   «Многие из тех, кто на «Fаcebook» е призывает людей к акциям, являются армянами». ANSPRESS.10.03.2011. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=3&lng=ru&pid=90359 (rus)
   234
   Али Ахмедов: «Азербайджанская молодежь не поддерживает подрывные идеи в соцсетях» Day.az. 10.03.2011. http://news.day.az/politics/256982.html (rus)
   235
   Азербайджанская певица: «Угнавший мою машину преступник имеет армянские корни». Vesti.az. 07.08.2011. http://vesti.az/news/87629/ (rus)
   236
   В Баку приезжает человек, который добивался признания «геноцида армян». Ksam.org. 24.05.2011. http://ksam.org/index.php?mtype=news1&mid=4890 (rus)
   237
   Али Гасанов: «Армянские сепаратисты оккупировали Шушу и Лачин при поддержке Павла Грачева». Vesti.az. 18.05.2012. http://vesti.az/news/117858/news.php?id=121915 (rus)
   238
   Международная ассоциация «Израиль-Азербайджан» дала бой хамству российского журналиста. Vesti.az. 06.11.11. http://vesti.az/news/95476/ (rus)
   239
   «Владимир Соловьев оскорбил Азербайджан!». Эхо Общественнополитическая газета. http://echo-az.com/index.php?aid=16719. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://youtube.com/watch?v=Y1unD5OExNU (rus)
   240
   Отчет Freedom House по Азербайджану предвзятый и несправедливый опрос. Trend. 04.05.2011. http://trend.az/news/society/1871102.html (rus)
   241
   Милли меджлис назвал Европарламент «армянскими наймитами» и грозится прекратить поставки нефти и газа в Европу. Azeri.ru. 29.05.2012. http://azeri.ppd.spb.ru/papers/contact_az/101606/ (rus)
   242
   Bakıda erməni idmançılara hücum edildi. Qafqazinfo.az. 01.10.2011. http://qafqazinfo.az/BAKIDA_ERMƏNI_IDMANÇILARA_HÜCUM_EDILDI-4880-xeber.html. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/6e304c54 (az)
   243
   Армянские корни абхазского сепаратизма. 1news.az. 07.04.2009. http://1news.az/analytics/20090407102631646.html (rus)
   244
   Прерывавший Эрдогана модератор в Давосе имеет армянские корни. Day.az. 31.01.2009. http://news.day.az/world/145853.html (rus)
   245
   Захвативший в Турции паром боевик имел армянские корни. Day.az. 16.11.2011. http://news.day.az/turkey/299225.html (rus)
   246
   Армянский террор против Грузии. Azglobus.net. 18.07.2012. http://azglobus.net/439-istoriya-armyanskogo-terrora-v-gruzii-video.html (rus)
   247
   Армянский след в финансовых махинациях Гульнары Каримовой. Azglobus.net. 10.01.2013. http://azglobus.net/2422-armyanskiy-sled-v-finansovyh-mahinaciyah-gulnary-karimovoy.html (rus)
   248
   Президент Алиев считает смехотворными заявления главы Армении о расизме и армянофобии в Азербайджане. Vesti.az. 22.06.2011. http://vesti.az/news/80928 (rus)
   249
   Заключительная речь Ильхама Алиева на конференции, посвященной итогам третьего года реализации «Государственной программы социально-экономического развития регионов Азербайджанской Республики в 2009–2013 годах». President.az. 28.02.2012. http://ru.president.az/articles/4400 (rus)
   250
   Аллахшукюр Пашазаде: «Обама должен посещать мечети». ANSPRESS. 28.09.2011. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=119068 (rus)
   251
   Глава Духовного управления мусульман Кавказа: «Ложь и предательство в крови у армян». Day.az. 22.08.2008. http://news.day.az/society/125166.html (rus)
   252
   Армянам не стоит сравнивать свое невежество с отсутствием разума у оружия – азербайджанский политолог. Trend.az. 29.07.2013. http://www.trend.az/news/karabakh/2174984.html (rus)
   253
   Əbülfəz Elçibəy, Milli kimliyimizin təməlləri haqqında, Birici bölüm (az)
   254
   Иргар Алиев. Лжеистория – очередная попытка оправдать агрессию. Национальная Академия Наук Азербайджана им. Бакиханова. Баку. Изд. Нурлан. – 2003 г. 48 с http://istoriya.az/kitablar/Ljeistoriya.pdf (rus)
   255
   Мубариз Ахмедоглу: «Захват чужих территорий – суть армянского менталитета». Xronika.az. 19.03.2010. http://xronika.az/azerbaijan/10734-mubariz-axmedoglu-zaxvat-chuzhix-territorij-sut.html (rus)
   256
   Абульфас Караев: «Пока есть азербайджанская культура, мы будем подвержены армянскому плагиату». Vesti.az. 15.11.2011. http://vesti.az/news/96352/news.php?id=117584 (rus)
   257
   Первый заместитель министра культуры и туризма Вагиф Алиев: «Армяне сделаны из такого теста, что их оценку должна дать история». Apa. 06.07.2012. http://ru.apa.az/print/226618 (rus)
   258
   Siyavuş Novruzovdan daha bir sensasiya. Moderator.az. 15.02.2013. http://moderator.az/haber-siyavu-novruzovdan-daha-bir-sensasiya-t2752.html // the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/5ed2dfe9 (az)
   259
   Bayram Səfərov: “Bizim düşmənimiz təkcə ermənilər deyil”. Modern.az. 02.10.2012. http://modern.az/articles/29361/1/ (az)
   260
   Посол Азербайджана в СЕ не советует армянам спать спокойно, пока карабахский конфликт не решен. ИА REGNUM. 20.02.2004. http://regnum.ru/news/221381.html (rus)
   261
   Об армянской болезни воровства! Я родился в Ереване… – Эльчин Алибейли. Trend. 23.02.2011. http://trend.az/life/interview/1834464.html (rus)
   262
   Эльдар Сабироглу выразил отношение к заявлению Минобороны Армении. Apa. 11.04.2013. http://ru.apa.az/news/245115 (rus)
   263
   Зияфет Аскеров: «Армения входит в список бесперспективных государств». Apa. 16.04.2013. http://ru.apa.az/news/245450 (rus)
   264
   «Бакинский рабочий» 1.02.1999 (rus)
   265
   «Biz gələcək döyüşə hazir olmaliyiq». Musavat.com. 26.07.2011. http://musavat.com/news/siyasət/biz-gələcək-döyüşə-hazir-olmaliyiq_104912.html (az)
   266
   Армян от атомного апокалипсиса спасет только практическое урегулирование конфликта в НК – эксперт. Newsazerbaijan.com. 21.11.2012. http://newsazerbaijan.ru/karabakh/20121121/298150168.html (rus)
   267
   Azərbaycan Ermənistanda süni zəlzələ yaratmağı təklif edir. Publika.az. 27.03.2013. http://publika.az/index.php?action=static_detail&static_id=43604 (az)
   268
   Посол: «Настало время урегулирования нагорно-карабахского конфликта». Anspress. 29.12.2009. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=20066 (rus)
   269
   Анар Мамедханов – армян надо убивать в Карабахе. Day.az. 08.03. 2004. http://news.day.az/politics/5101.html (rus)
   270
   Əbülfəz Elçibəy, Bütöv Azərbaycan Yolunda, s. 62–64, Bakı, 2004. (az)
   271
   Ариф Газиев: «Я с детства бросал камни в армян». Vesti.az. 29.07.2009. http://vesti.az/news/9522 (rus)
   272
   Presidential candidate of the Azerbaijani Republic in 2014.
   273
   İqbal Ağazadə: “Özəl həyatımı kiminləsə bölüşmək niyyətim yoxdur”. Lent.az. 19.11.2009. http://news.lent.az/news/17578 (az)
   274
   Azerbaijan’s president launches Twitter rant against Armenia. Global News Blog. 20.11.2012. http://globalpost.com/dispatches/globalpost-blogs/weird-wide-web/azerbaijan-president-ilham-aliyev-twitter-rant-armenia (en)
   275
   What do Azerbaijan, Estonia, and Rwanda have in common? Foreign Policy. 20.11.2012. http://blog.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/11/20/what_do_azerbaijan_estonia_and_rwanda_have_in_common (en)
   276
   Речь Президента Азербайджанской Республики Гейдара Алиева на церемонии открытия ‎мечети Казым Гарабекир Паша в Нахчыване – 13 октября 1999 года. Библиотека наследия Гейдара Алиева http://library.aliyev-heritage.org/ru/9530689.html the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/5b2b404c (rus)
   277
   Гейдар Джемаль: «Армения должна быть упразднена». IPR. 23.10.2009. http://i-r-p.ru/page/stream-document/index-24649.html, Мубариз Ахемедоглу: «Самый легкий путь победы над Арменией заключается в нанесении удара по Мецаморской АЭС». Salamnews.org. 21.11.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/40201/samiy-legkiy-put-pobedi-nad-armeniey-zaklyuchaetsya-v-nanesenii-udara-po-mecamorskoy-aes-ndash-politolog/ (rus)
   278
   There are also active indirect, passive direct and passive indirect types of verbal aggression.
   279
   249подарков от брата Синь пришлись не по душе безработным гражданам Армении. Vesti.az. 07.12.2012. http://vesti.az/news/139647/ (rus)
   280
   Non-existent derogatory coinage mocking the Armenian endonym Hayastan and consisting of the Russian obscene term for penis and– stan suffix meaning ‘country of’, translator’s note
   281
   И все-таки, когда-то Армению придется упразднить. Vesti.az. 08.09.2012. http://vesti.az/news/129143/ (rus)
   282
   Ermənilər, bizi gözləyin! Qaplanlar.com.08.11.2011. http://qaplanlar.com/?p=1029, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/28a4c25a (az)
   283
   В отличие от Азербайджана, Грузия должна успеть ввести карантин против армянской заразы. Vesti.az.1.08.2011. http://vesti.az/news/84919 (rus)
   284
   Правительство» Карабаха выделило 46 000 долларов на борьбу с себе подобными. Vesti.az. 09.02.2012. http://vesti.az/news/106317 (rus)
   285
   Депутат от «Единой России» недоволен президентом и хочет эмигрировать в Карабах. Vesti.az. 06.09.2011. http://vesti.az/news/88416/ (rus)
   286
   Армянская «палитра» – из кого состоит армянский народ?. 1news.az. 16.06.2011. http://1news.az/analytics/20110614092836251.html (rus)
   287
   Заур Алиев. «Армянская психология и политика». Karabakhinfo.org. 27.02.2013. http://karabakhinfo.com/ru/muellif/122-armyanskaya-psihologiya-i-politika. html (rus)
   288
   Армяне через полтора месяца оскорбились на сравнившего их с баранами Леонида Якубовича. Vesti.az. 02.05. 2013. http://vesti.az/news/157063 (rus)
   289
   Мировое армянство против еврейского народа: ненависть – месть труса. 1news.az. 08.02.2010. http://1news.az/analytics/20100208112924222.html (rus)
   290
   Coinage mocking the Armenian endonym Hay, translator’s note.
   291
   Incidents involving the deaths of children near the front-line Azerbaijan refused to carry out a transparent international investigation confining itself to baseless charges against not Armenia but rather Armenians as an ethnic unit.
   292
   Пусть Колеров, Казимиров, Захаров, Затулин на секунду представят, что…. Vesti.az. 19.07.2012. http://vesti.az/news/83512 (rus)
   293
   This implies the ancient Armenian mother goddess Anahit, the goddess of love and fertility, the daughter (or wife) of Aramazd (the supreme god).
   294
   Потомки богини Анаис: «армянская формула чести». 1news.az. 28.08.2009. http://1news.az/analytics/20090828061042597.html (rus)
   295
   Бакинская Армянка Карина до сих пор помнит «пристрастный экзамен», устроенный ей в Баку. Бахрам Батыев. Блог. 10.01.2012. http://batiyev-news.blogspot.com/2012/01/blog-post_10.html (rus)
   296
   Çinarə Vüqar. Metronun «28 May» stansiyasının ətrafındakı masaj salonlarını erməni əsilli qadınlar işlədir. Gundelik-Baki 18.10.2011. http://gundelik-baku.com/index. php?newsid=5892. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/9778e43b (az)
   297
   Надевая на армянина женский халат, Москва пытается затащить Ереван в Евразийский союз. Vesti.az. 17.07.2013. http://vesti.az/news/166038 (rus)
   298
   В Армении и Карабахе помпезно отмечают день рождения насильника армянских девушек. Vesti.az. 05.03.2013. http://vesti.az/news/109432 (rus)
   299
   И собрал Бог всех армян в мешок и стал нести его…. Vesti.az. 15.12.2012. http://vesti.az/news/140589/ (rus)
   300
   Кто остановит баронессу? Zerkalo.az. 20.04.2011. http://archive.n.zerkalo.az/2011-04-20/politics/18679-baronessakoks-karabah/print (rus)
   301
   Lit. spittle, translator’s note.
   302
   Новруз Мамедов. Бред наемного дипломата. Trend.az. 29.05.2013, http://www.trend.az/news/politics/2155434.html (rus)
   303
   Алла Денисова, кфн. Язык вражды в российских СМИ: гендерное измерение. Женщина Плюс. № 4, 2002. ж-л. http://owl.ru/win/womplus/2002/denisova2.htm (rus)
   304
   Армяне воруют везде, даже за океаном в Америке!. Anspress. 16.11.2012. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=176042 (rus)
   305
   «Ненависть заложена в природе армян. Она беспредельна». Turksam.org 26.02.2005. http://turksam.org/ru/yazdir152.html (rus)
   306
   Коварный план оккупантов. Minval.az. 23.03.2013. http://minval.az/news/4641/(rus)
   307
   Очередная подлость армян в преддверии 20-го января. Azeritoday. 20.01.2011. http://azeritoday.com/archives/23607 (rus)
   308
   На заседании ПАСЕ Армении необходимо было предстать беззащитной девкой… Vesti.az. 05.07.2011. http://vesti.az/news/82105 (rus)
   309
   Очередная подлость армян с попустительства организаторов выставки. Azeritoday. 24.01.2012. http://azeritoday.com/archives/32420 (rus)
   310
   Ильхам Алиев: «Наибольшее число беженцев среди стран мира именно в Азербайджане». Salamnews. 02.04.2013. http://salamnews.org/ru/news/read/66796/ilxam-aliev-laquonaibolshee-chislo-bejencev-sredi-stran-mira-imenno-v- azerbaydaneraquo/ (rus)
   311
   Ильхам Алиев. Минувшие 10 лет стали важным этапом в динамичном социально-экономическом развитии Азербайджана. Интервью. Azerros. 05.04.13. http://azerros.ru/intervju/11767-ilham-aliev-minuvshie-10-let-stali-vazhnym-etapom-v-dinamichnom-socialno-ekonomicheskom-razvitii-azerbaydzhana.html (rus)
   312
   Юнусов А.Миграционные тренды и тенденции в постсоветском Азербайджане. Опубликовано в книге: Транзитная миграция и транзитные страны: теория, практика и политика регулирования / Под ред. И. Молодиковой и Ф. Дювеля. М.: Университетская книга, 2009, http://demoscope.ru/weekly/2010/0415/analit02. php (rus)
   313
   Письмо Генеральному Секретарю ООН, Кофи Аннану, от и.о. президента НКР Леонарда Петросяна. 17 августа 1997 года. http://sumgait.info/caucasus-conflicts/historical-falsifications/historical-falsifications-4.htm (rus)
   314
   Рамиз Мехтиев: «Руководство Армении превратилось в марионетку в очень опасной игре». Anspress. 03.12.2012. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=178370 (rus)
   315
   Письмо Генеральному Секретарю ООН, Кофи Аннану, от и.о. президента НКР Леонарда Петросяна. 17 августа 1997 года. http://sumgait.info/caucasus-conflicts/historical-falsifications/historical-falsifications-4.htm (rus)
   316
   С. Кара-Мурза. «Манипуляции сознанием». изд. Алгоритм. Москва-2005 г. http://www.kara-murza.ru/books/manipul/manipul19.htm (rus)
   317
   ‘Frozen Conflict’ Between Azerbaijan and Armenia Begins to Boil. Ellen Barry. «The New York Times». May 31, 2011.
   318
   Орден «За отвагу» необходим для армян, которые приедут на «Евровидение» в Баку. Vesti.az. 31.05.2011. http://vesti.az/news/78758 (rus)
   319
   Уголовный кодекс Азербайджанской Республики. 31.01.2005. http://legislationline.org/ru/documents/action/popup/id/14108/ (rus)
   320
   Хоруженко В.А.Формирование мифологизированного образа врага в политической публицистике и пропаганде// Вестник Московского государственного областного университета. Серия «Русская филология», № 2. Изд. МГОУ. 01.02.2010 г. P. 223. http://vestnik-mgou.ru/mag/2010/rusfil/2/st47.pdf (rus)
   321
   Амрали Исмаилов, историк. За «любовь» к армянам азербайджанцы не заплатили нефтедоллары ни Тамерлану, ни Марксу, ни Твердохлебову, ни тем более Тациту. Vesti.az. 10/12/2012. http://vesti.az/news/139955/ (rus)
   322
   Арлин Одергон. «Отель «Война». Психологическая динамика вооруженных конфликтов» – М: 2008. (rus)
   323
   Op.cit.
   324
   Словарь политических терминов. http://polit-slovar.ru/dictionary/1087/ (rus)
   325
   Виктор Топоров. Демонизация как феномен. НГ-Сценарии. № 5(39), май 1999 г. http://vivovoco.rsl.ru/VV/NG/DEMON.HTM (rus)
   326
   Арлин Одергон. «Отель «Война». Психологическая динамика вооруженных конфликтов» – М: 2008. (rus)
   327
   Hale, Alisahib Erogul, Baku.«Tekhnur», 2011 г. 608 p. http://azerichild.info/HALE. pdf (az)
   328
   Extracts from the book of Daud Heyriyan. http://karabakh-doc.azerall.info/hisday/armyanstvo7.htm (rus)
   329
   It goes without saying that Armenians have no such custom.
   330
   Аббас И. История по-армянски или из дневника Армена Баласаняна, Зеркало, 2007. – 8 августа, N N 141. – С.3 (rus)
   331
   Ходжалинцы, пережившие ужасы геноцида, рассказали о трагедии в Берлине. Vesti.az. 27.02.2012. http://vesti.az/news/108481/news.php?id=111044 (rus)
   332
   «Смотри! Не забудь!». Бакинский рабочий.– 2009.– 24 апреля. – С. 8, http://anl.az/down/meqale/bakrabochiy/bakrabochiy_aprel2009/76682.htm (rus)
   333
   Ходжалинцы, пережившие ужасы геноцида, рассказали о трагедии в Берлине. Vesti.az. 27.02.2012. http://vesti.az/news/108481/news.php?id=111044 (rus)
   334
   Аббас И. История по-армянски или из дневника Армена Баласаняна, Зеркало, 2007. – 8 august, N N 141. – P.3 (rus)
   335
   Other purported versions of the book title are:“Resurrection of Our Soul”, “Resurrection of Our Spirit” and so forth.
   336
   Азербайджанский парламентарий призвала международные организации к активной борьбе против грубого нарушения прав человека в Армении. Day.az, 24.06.2009. http://news.day.az/politics/162506.html (rus)
   337
   Non-existent address in Beirut.
   338
   Non-existent publishing house.
   339
   Jermuk, Javakhk, Hayastan.
   340
   Announcement of Xenophobia Prevention Initiative NGO. Stopxenophobia.org, 29.10.2012. http://stopxenophobia.org/?page_id=3453 (en)
   341
   Прелюдией январских событий стал Сумгайыт 1988 года. «Зеркало» 7.02.2006 г. cб. Карабахский конфликт: азербайджанский взгляд. http://modernlib.ru/books/avtorov_kollektiv/karabahskiy_konflikt_azerbaydzhanskiy_vzglyad/read/ (rus)
   342
   Покровский А.М. «Расстрелять». Издательство ИНАПРЕСС, 1994, Thelibru. http://thelib.ru/books/pokrovskiy_aleksandr/rasstrelyatii-read-18.html (rus)
   343
   Сайт о событиях, имевших место в городе Сумгаит http://sumqait.com/ru/ethnic/ the original was removed from source, cashed fragments can be found here: http://peeep.us/ebd0e422 (rus)
   344
   Ibid
   345
   «Цивилизованный» АРАмагеддон. Станем ли мы свидетелями очередного акта каннибализма? Али Багиров. «Бакинские ведомости», № 13 (52), 15 апреля 2006. http://monitorjournal.com/vedom/2006/52/aramagedon.htm (rus)
   346
   Сайт о событиях, имевших место в городе Сумгаит http://sumqait.com/ru/ethnic/ the original was removed from source, cashed fragments can be found here: http://peeep.us/ebd0e422 (rus)
   347
   Ibid.
   348
   Время раскроет истинные цели написания романа «Каменные сны» – Спикер Милли Меджлиса. 1news.az. 01.02.2013. http://1news.az/politics/20130201011659788.html (rus)
   349
   Как началась Карабахская война. Организация освобождения Карабаха. Баку 2009. http://karabakh-doc.azerall.info/ru/isegod/isg037.htm (rus)
   350
   Мухаммед Исмайлов: «По ночам азербайджанские села отдавались на произвол армянских банд…». Ризван Гусейнов. 25.04.2012. http://rizvanhuseynov.com/2011/04/blog-post_25.html (rus)
   351
   «О детях, заживо заваренных армянами!». Haqqin.az. 18.02.2013. http://haqqin.az/news/3951 (rus)
   352
   М.Сеидов. «Армянский вандализм» Новосибирск-2010, http://kak.znate.ru/docs/index-25320.html?page=27 (rus)
   353
   Hale, Alisahib Erogul, Baku.«Tekhnur», 2011 г. 608 p. http://azerichild.info/HALE.pdf (az)
   354
   «Bax! Gör! Unutma!» layihəsi başa çatdı. Tia.az. 24.10.2011. http://tia.az/index.php?name=News&op=Article&sid=10105 (az)
   355
   Э. Гасанов. Людоедка Каринэ. Lib.ru. 28.08.2009. http://lit.lib.ru/g/gasanow_e_g/text_1010.shtml (rus)
   356
   Э. Гасанов. Анжела Петросян в Баку. Lib.ru. 28.10.2011. http://lit.lib.ru/g/gasanow_e_g/text_1760-1.shtml (rus)
   357
   Rus qızlarını sonsuzlaşdıran erməni vaksinləri. Publika.az 06.06.2013. http://publika.az/index.php?action=static_detail&static_id=52586 (az)
   358
   Гумашян объявлен в розыск. Каспий.– 2010. – 22 april. – P. 1–2.. http://anl.az/down/meqale/kaspi/2010/aprel/115827.htm (rus)
   359
   Qumaşyan «Yeni Müsavat» a danişdi. Musavat. 12.05.2010. http://youtube.com/watch?v=9M4CJh4MTGk (az)
   360
   Adna terrorunda bir erməni sirri. Musavat.03.06.2010. http://musavat.com/new/ölkə/adna-terrorunda-bir-erməni-sirri_101607.html (az)
   361
   Будущее еще не наступило? Зеркало. 03.05.2011. http://archive.n.zerkalo.az/2011-05-03/politics/19115-massovoeubiystvo-mardungumashyan/print (rus)
   362
   Ягублу арестован за разоблачение мифа о Мардуне Гумашьяне. Туран. 09.02.2013. http://contact.az/docs/2013/Interview/020900027817ru.htm (rus)
   363
   Disput.az.Интернет-форум. 12.09.2013. http://disput.az/index.php?showtopic=291879&st=45#entry9985161 (rus)
   364
   В Азербайджане выявлены продукты из Армении. Azeritoday.com. 25.01.2011. http://azeritoday.com/archives/23755 (rus)
   365
   Nutrilac (‘Нутрилак безлактозный плюс’) lactose-free formula is recommended for children with disaccharidase (lactase) deficiency, celiac disease, galactosemia and diarrheal syndrome of infectious origin. The recipe for all the formulae is developed jointly with the Scientific Research Institute of Nutrition and the Scientific Center of Child Health Care, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences in line with the recent trends in child nutrition.
   366
   Azərbaycanda uşaq qidası satışında erməni izi. Merkez.az. 11.04.2012. http:// merkez.az/archives/151090, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/04caed34 (az)
   367
   Bakının mərkəzində erməni bayrağından koftalar satılır. Gunxeber.com. 14.05.2012. http://gunxeber.com/?p=10117 (az)
   368
   There is no such brand in either Armenia, or the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic.
   369
   На азербайджанских рынках продаются армянские товары. Aysor.am. 03.05.2012. http://aysor.am/ru/news/2009/12/18/armenianproducts-azerbaijan/ (rus)
   370
   «Армянский лаваш» в бакинской кофейне? Shebeke.az. 09.06.2012. http://shebeke.az/news/society/9620123345.shtml (rus)
   371
   “Chelton” çayi ermənistanda istehsal edilmir”. Musavat. 28.10.2009. http://musavat.com/new/ölkə/chelton-çayi-ermənistanda-istehsal-edilmir_63330.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/fe50f522 (az)
   372
   There are no gas stations with this name in Armenia; this is a blatant example of misinforming and whipping up hysteria.
   373
   “H” petrol düşmən bayrağını xatırladır. Gundelik-Baku. 26.06.12. http://gundelikbaku.com/index.php?newsid=6695 (az)
   374
   Предотвращен ввоз в Азербайджан спиртных напитков и табачных изделий армянского производства. Ара. az 03.06.2013. http://ru.apa.az/news/248703 (rus)
   375
   Таможня занимается цензурой? Turan. 10.06.2013. http://contact.az/docs/2013/Politics/061000039317ru.htm (rus)
   376
   Армянская мина замедленного действия в домах жителей Баку. Vesti.az. 21.10.2011. http://vesti.az/news/93628 (rus)
   377
   Экстремистское движение «Полюс» «Гютб» в Азербайджане. “Вышка” № 20 (19664) от 1.06.2007 года http://senuber.az/new/db/show_news.php?subaction=showfull&id=1204196390&archive=&template=hy the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/cd8dfa84 (rus)
   378
   Azərbaycan xalqi şizofrenik topluma çevrilir. Poligon. 25.5.2012. http://pia.az/index.php?l=az&m=news&id=20329 (az)
   379
   Fictitious person.
   380
   Şöhrət El-Dəniz. 7 yaşlı uşağa təcavüz edən. Kanalm5.tv. 14.04.12. http://gundelikbaku.com/index.php?newsid=5490 / (az)
   381
   Soldier in Turkish, translator’s note
   382
   Probably, she meant the frontal lobe.
   383
   “Erməni həkim kəlbətinlə alın sümüyümü çıxartmaq istəyirdi”. Publika.az. 17.010.12. http://publika.az/index.php?action=static_detail&static_id=22859&project_ id=4 (az)
   384
   «Azərbaycana magik hücumlar var». Bizimyolinfo.com. 18.06.2012. http://bizimyolinfo.com/?sehife=1&xeber=71(az)
   385
   200миллионов манатов на колдунов и экстрасенсов. Эхо. 09.04.2013. http://echo.az/article.php?aid=38838 (rus)
   386
   Звонок в МЧС: «Армяне прикрепили к моей спине бомбу!». Vesti.az. 20.01.2010. http://vesti.az/news/29477 (rus)
   387
   Информация о маршрутах передвижения азербайджанских дипломатов будет ограничена. Salamnews. 13.10.2012. http://salamnews.org/ru/news/read/30642/pinformaciya-o-marshrutax-peredvijeniya-azerbaydan (rus)
   388
   Глава МИД Азербайджана отправляется на Ближний Восток. НовостиАзербайджан. 21.04.2013. http://newsazerbaijan.ru//newsoline/20130421/298757725. html (rus)
   389
   To stop the spate of Armenian pogroms perpetrated throughout January 13–19, 1990, the Soviet troops entered Baku on the night of January 19–20.
   390
   После того как советский снайпер убил в Баку моего репортера и ранил меня, я выступил по телевидению…». САУ. 27.01.2013. http://uayu.org/samu/novosti-samu/article/354 (rus)
   391
   «Diqqət, düşmən dinləyir!». Qafgazinfo.az. 27.12.2012. http://qafqazinfo.az/xeber-dumn-kimdir-azr-hsrt-t32962.html (az)
   392
   Кармин А.С. Культурология: Культура социальных отношений. – СПб.: Лань, 2000.
   393
   Волошина А. Добро и зло. Онтология Добра и Зла. Клуб практической философии. http://chestisvet.ru/?id=169 (rus)
   394
   Кузнецов В, Кузнецова И, Миронов В, Момджян К. Философия: Учебник ИНФРА-М, 2004. – 519 p. (rus)
   395
   Новая философская энциклопедия. http://iph.ras.ru/elib/2879.html (rus)
   396
   «Мысленные эксперименты» Журнал «В мире науки» № 2. 2012 г. (rus)
   397
   The asymmetry in human judgment contingent on the wording of the question and irrespective of its meaning.
   398
   Приговор, вынесенный 13 апреля 2006 г. Столичным Судом Будапешта под председательством Андраша Вашкути. Дело N 6.Б. 515 /2004/ 128, http://stopxenophobia.org/docs/safarov.pdf (hu.)
   399
   16ударов топором. http://safarov.org (rus)
   400
   Ильхам Алиев лишил Акрама Айлисли звания и стипендии. Радио Азадлыг. 07.02.2013. http://www.radioazadlyg.org/content/article/24895667.html (rus)
   401
   «Каменные истины». Vesti.az. 05.06.2013. http://www.vesti.az/news/161034 (rus)
   402
   Минкультуры Австрии вмешался в скандал с азербайджанскими танцорамиармянофобами и их выдворили в Баку. Panorama.am. 30.06.2012. http://panorama.am/ru/society/2012/06/30/gayane/ (rus)
   403
   Азербайджанец отказался представить армянского певца на международном конкурсе. Vesti.az. 22.06.2013. http://www.vesti.az/news/163033 (rus)
   404
   Erməni uşağı. Publika.az. 20.02.2013. http://publika.az/index.php?action=static_detail&static_id=39812 (az)
   405
   Военнослужащий-азербайджанец воздал по заслугам сослуживцу-армянину в туалете. Vesti.az. 02.28.2013. http://vesti.az/news/168150 (rus)
   406
   Симург требует от руководства отеля выселить армянский Гандзасар. Azerisport.com. 21.01.2013. http://azerisport.com/football/20130121123344388.html (rus)
   407
   Рамиз Мамедов: Армянина в Атырау не будет. Azerifootball.com. 06.01.2011. http://azerifootball.com/ru/17/news/4679.html (rus)
   408
   Иранская компания, обслуживающая рейсы Тебриз-Ереван, арендует офис в международном автовокзале Баку. Aze.az. 15.04.2013. http://aze.az/news_iranskaya_kompaniya_obsluj_90373.html (rus)
   409
   Азербайджан потребовал от официальной Анкары объяснений. Радио «Озоти». 17.03.2012. http://rus.ozodi.org/archive/news/20130331/11266/11266.html?id=24931103 (rus)
   410
   Берлинский суд оштрафовал азербайджанского националиста за оскорбление президента Армении. Panorama.am. 24.11.2010. http://panorama.am/ru/law/2010/11/24/muntazir-sargsyan/ (rus)
   411
   Азербайджану из-за антиармянской провокации запретили участвовать в Международной книжной выставке в Минске. Panorama.am. 16.02.2011. http://panorama.am/ru/society/2011/02/16/minsk/ (rus)
   412
   Почему, выезжая за рубеж, наши чиновники не везут туда книги об оккупации Карабаха – Зарифа Салахова. Новости-Азербайджан. 11.11.2009. http://newsazerbaijan.ru/exclusive/20091111/43125218.html (rus)
   413
   В Баку азербайджанский и немецкий депутаты поссорились из-за карабахского вопроса. ИА Регнум. 16.05.2012. http://regnum.ru/news/1531675.html (rus)
   414
   90-летний армянин пiдманул украинскую газету. Vesti.az. 23.02.2012. http://vesti.az/news/108098/news.php?id=142632 (rus)
   415
   «Поющую «Сары гялин» на армянском Сезен Аксу можно понять: пропал голос, а ей нужны деньги». Vesti.az. 10.03.2012. http://vesti.az/news/110013/news.php?id=109739 (rus)
   416
   Ibid.
   417
   Председатель ООК Акиф Наги направил Папе Римскому письмо в знак протеста против канонизации Иоанна Павла II. Apa. 03.05.2011. http://ru.apa.az/news/192030 (rus)
   418
   Грузинский профессор: «Армяне поменяли мне фамилию: теперь я Алиев». Vesti.az. 21.11.2011. http://vesti.az/news/97103 (rus)
   419
   В мексиканской газете опубликована статья под названием «Армянское двуличие». 1news.az. 09.04.2012. http://1news.az/politics/20130409083234017.html (rus)
   420
   Azerbaycan medyasından Davutoğlu`na “Sarı gelin” tepkisi. 1news. com.tr. 23.05.2011. http://1news.com.tr/azerbaycan/siyaset/20110523113751837.html (tr)
   421
   Эльчин Алибейли отстранен из ATV. ANSPRESS. 17.02.2011. http://anspress.com/index.php?a=2&lng=ru&nid=86827 (rus)
   422
   Разразился очередной турецко-азербайджанский скандал на почве армянофобии. ИА Регнум. 16.04.2013. http://regnum.ru/news/1649497.html (rus)
   423
   Gokcen Karanfil = Becoming Undone: Contesting Nationalisms in Contemporary Turkish Popular Cinema // National Identities. – March 2006. – В. 1. – Т. 8. – С. 61–75.: «It is interesting to pin down that this old song named “Sari Gelin” is an anonymous Armenian song which has become a part of Turkish culture throughout long years» (en)
   424
   Kimliyini Unutmuşlar… Əhməd Şahidov. 28.10.2009. http://www.shahidov.com/?p=638 (az)
   425
   Дочь азербайджанского министра влюбилась в армянина, Азербайджан в шоке. ИА Регнум. 28.07.2010. http://regnum.ru/news/polit/1309304.html (rus)
   426
   SOCAR-ın vitse-prezidentinin kürəkəni Azərbaycanı biabır etdi. Bizimyol.info. 02.04.2013. http://bizimyolinfo.com/?sehife=1&xeber=8773 (az)
   427
   Арлин Одергон «Отель «Война». Психологическая динамика вооруженных конфликтов» – М: 2008 г. (rus)
   428
   Энциклопедический словарь Брокгауза и Ефрона. Под ред. И.Е.Андреевского. Санкт-Петербург. 1880–1907 гг. (rus)
   429
   Archaeology and Biblical Research. Summer, Vol. 5,№ 3, 1992 г. (en)
   430
   Иосиф Флавий, «Иудейские древности», Книга I, гл. III (rus)
   431
   Argam Aivazian. Nakhijevan. Book of Monuments (Yerevan: 1990). Collection of multitude of photos of Armenian monuments. (en)
   432
   In the nineteenth century, foreign historians named monuments of this distinctive group“cross-stone” as translated from the Armenian word “khachkar”. Researchers highlight khachkars as “architectural endemics of Armenia” with a distinct national identity. Hundreds of thousands of such monuments mark the former vital space of the Armenian people and outline the borders of its historical homeland.
   433
   Alexande de Rhodes, Divers Voyages et Missions du P. A. de Rhodes en la Chine,&AutresRoyaumes avec son Retour en Europe par la Perse et I’Armenie (Paris: Sebastian Cramoisy, 1653), Part 3, 63. Second edition (Paris: 1854), 416.) (fr)
   434
   John Newbery, HakluytusPosthumus or Purchas His Pilgrimes, contayning a History of the World in Sea Voyages. (en)
   435
   Рубен Галичян. «Мифологизация истории. Азербайджан, Армения, вымыслы и факты». Ереван. 2010 г. 211 стр. (rus)
   436
   Op.cit.
   437
   Azerbaijan«flattened» sacred Armenian site. The Independent. 30.05. 2006. http://independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/azerbaijan-flattened-sacred-armenian-site-480272.html (en)
   438
   «Речь Президента Азербайджана Гейдара Алиева на торжественном юбилейном собрании, посвященном 75-летию образования Нахчыванской АССР», «Бакинский рабочий», 14.10.1999 г. (rus)
   439
   Если Франции нужно будет, чтобы армяне были древним народом, поверьте мне, так и будет – заместитель директора Института археологии и этнографии НАН АР Наджаф Мусеибли. Trend.az. 05.11.2007. http://trend.az/life/history/1069614.html (rus)
   440
   Ibid
   441
   Арис Казинян, «Полигон «Азербайджан». Центр общественных связей и технологий. Ереван. 2011 г. 615 стр. (rus)
   442
   Резолюция Европейского Парламента по Политике Европейского соседства (European Neighbourhood Policy) Брюссель, ЕС, январь 2006. (rus)
   443
   Azerbaijan«flattened» sacred Armenian site. The Independent. 30.05. 2006. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/azerbaijan-flattened-sacred-armenian-site-480272.html (en)
   444
   Op.cit.
   445
   Today, from thousands of memorial khachkars survived only those which were moved from Jugha in the nineteenth century by a Russian geographer and naturalist, a corresponding member of the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences Gustav Radde for the Caucasian Museum of Nature and History in Tiflis (at present, the Simon Janashia Museum of Georgia) established in 1867 and several other khachkars were moved to the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin in the soviet times.
   446
   Azerbaijan Famous Medieval Cemetery Vanishes. IWPR reporter confirms that there is nothing left of the celebrated stone crosses of Jugha. Iwpr.net. 27.04.2006. http://iwpr.net/report-news/azerbaijan-famous-medieval-cemetery-vanishes (en)
   447
   Из речи президента Азербайджана Ильхама Алиева на торжественной церемонии, посвященной 85-летию Нахичеванской Автономной Республики. Eurasia. ru. 05.08.2009. http://www.eurasia.ru/news/show/1968.html (rus)
   448
   Рубен Галичян. «Мифологизация истории. Азербайджан, Армения, вымыслы и факты». Ереван. 2010 г. 211 стр. (rus)
   449
   Մանասյան Ա.Ս, Լեռնային Ղարաբաղ. Ինչես է դա եղել, Հանրային կապերի և տեղեկատվության կենտրոն, Երևան 2011. 55 (arm)
   450
   Давуд Ага-оглы Ахундов, Архитектура древнего и раннесредневекового Азербайджана (Baku: 1986), 246—7. (rus)
   451
   A personal message from Steiner Gil to R. Galechyan. August, 2008.
   452
   AFP/«Christan minority in Azerbaijan gets rid of Armenian eyes ore» Worldwide Religious News, 17.02.2005, http://soc.culture.turkish.narkive.com/r4ztSVks/christian-minority-in-azerbaijan-gets-rid-of-armenian-eyesore (en)
   453
   Памятник 5 века оказался под угрозой разрушения. Aze.az. 09.01.2010. http://aze.az/news_pamyatnik_5_veka_30228.html (rus)
   454
   Armenian buildings of Baku. http://baku.am/Armenian-buildings-of-Baku (en)
   455
   Սամվել Կարապետյան, Հյուսիսային Արցախ, ՌԱԱ Գիտական ուսումնասիրություններ մատենաշարից (Yerevan. 2004), գիրք Զ: 312–315 (arm)
   456
   Սամվել Կարապետյան, Հյուսիսային Արցախ, ՌԱԱ Գիտական ուսումնասիրություններ մատենաշարից (Yerevan. 2004), գիրք Զ: 312–315 (arm)
   457
   Рубен Галичян. «Мифологизация истории. Азербайджан, Армения, вымыслы и факты». Yerevan. 2010 г. р. 85. (rus)
   458
   Op.cit. p. 88
   459
   Op.cit.р. 89
   460
   Дезинформация относительно армянской церкви в Нахичеване, на сей раз, на сайте Eurasianet. Armenpress.am. 28.11.2012. http://armenpress.am/rus/news/700858/ (rus)
   461
   Armenian Churches in Baku. Diaspora-world. http://diaspora-world.info/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=5497&Itemid=&lang=en (en)
   462
   М. Бархударьянц, «Арцах», Baku (1895), р. 314 (rus)
   463
   National Archives of Armenia, fund 53, list 1, file 3814, p. 105 (en)
   464
   A Brief History of the Art and Architecture of Artsakh– Nagorno Karabakh. Nkrusa.org. http://nkrusa.org/country_profile/art_history_of_artsakh.shtml (en)
   465
   Vrej Nersessian. Treasures from the ark: 1700 years of Armenian Christian art. British Library, 2001. ISBN 0712346996, 9780712346993,Стр. 28. “Gag is a famous fortress and district, founded by king Gagik, where is found the well known churches of the Holy Cross and Saint Sargis the General”(en)
   466
   Qazax (Kazakh, Gazakh). Azerb.com. http://azerb.com/az-qazax.html (en)
   467
   Левон Мелик-Шахназарян «Военные преступления Азербайджана против мирного населения Нагорно-Карабахской Республики». Pub. “Nairi”, Yerevan, 1997, http://armenianhouse.org/mshakhnazaryan/docs-ru/crime/contents.html (rus)
   468
   Крысько Владимир Гаврилович. Секреты психологической войны (цели, задачи, методы, формы, опыт). Minsk, 1999, (rus)
   469
   Сергей Кара-Мурза, Сергей Смирнов. «Манипуляция сознанием 2». Серия: Политический бестселлер. Exmo: Algoritm. Moscow. 2009. 528 р. (rus)
   470
   «Конвенции о предупреждении преступления геноцида и наказания за него» (статья II). http://un.org/ru/documents/decl_conv/conventions/genocide.shtml (rus)
   471
   Обращение Президента Азербайджанской Республики Гейдара Алиева к азербайджанскому народу в связи с 31 марта – Днем геноцида азербайджанцев – г. Баку, 27 марта 2003 года. http://library.aliyev-heritage.org/ru/2729622.html the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/6d5c8c8f (rus)
   472
   Геноцид. Azerbaijans.com, http://azerbaijans.com/content_321_ru.html (rus)
   473
   Лотман Ю. М. Избр. статьи: В 3 т. Т. 1. Статьи по семиотике и типологии культуры. Таллинн, 1992. (rus)
   474
   Вундт В. Проблемы психологии народов, Преступная толпа. М, 1998. p. 226 (rus)
   475
   Михаил Архангородский. «Любовь нечаянно нагрянет… О психологии личности при тоталитарных и автократических режимах». Perm. 2010, (rus)
   476
   Here: territory of the Republic of Armenia.
   477
   Шелале Гасанова: «Геноцид азербайджанцев – это назидание всему человечеству об опасности дашнакского воинствующего национализма». Day.az. 31.03.2010. http://news.day.az/politics/201116.html (rus)
   478
   Эльмира Сулейманова выступила с заявлением в связи с Днем геноцида азербайджанцев. 1news.az. 28.03.2013. http://1news.az/society/20130328011117011.html (rus)
   479
   Распоряжение Президента Азербайджанской Республики Ильхама Алиева о создании в городе Губа «Мемориального комплекса геноцида». г. Баку, 30 декабря 2009 года http://kak.znate.ru/docs/index-3035.html?page=144 (rus)
   480
   Гайк Демоян. Когда губа не дура, или особенности национального геноцидостроения в Азербайджане. Газета «Голос Армении» от 14.09.2010, № 97 (20030). http://golosarmenii.am/ru/20030/world/5746/ (rus)
   481
   Махмуд Керимов: «Пока рано делать выводы по выявленному массовому захоронению в Губе». Day.az. 18.04.2007. http://news.day.az/politics/76866.html (rus)
   482
   Комиссия, исследовавшая массовое захоронение в Губе, подтвердила принадлежность останков жертвам геноцида азербайджанцев в 1918 году. Day.az. 13.04.2007. http://news.day.az/politics/76285.html (rus)
   483
   Армянские политологи против политики ксенофобии Ильхама Алиева: кто же захоронен в Губе? Regnum.ru. 02.11.2012. http://regnum.ru/news/armenia/1589098. html (rus)
   484
   Газета «Арев» от 27 апреля 1918 г. (rus)
   485
   «Историческая призма»: 1918-й. Как происходила массовая резня в Губе. Day. az. 28.03.2013. http://news.day.az/politics/392100.html (rus)
   486
   Between hunger and fire. Documentary. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxc7jdIasQg (en)
   487
   Азербайджанская пропаганда оконфузилась с очередным «геноцидом», на сей раз в Иране. Panorama.am. 18.12.2012. http://panorama.am/ru/analytics/2012/12/18/a-sarkisyan-analitics (rus)
   488
   Here: Iranian province.
   489
   Найденное в Иране место массового захоронения должно охраняться как доказательство геноцида азербайджанцев – депутат. Salamnews.org. 03.11.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/35411/naydennoe-v-irane-mesto-massovogo-zaxoroneniya-dolno-oxranyatsya-kak-dokazatelstvo-genocida-azerbaydancev-ndash-deputatnbsp (rus)
   490
   В Баку пройдет международная конференция по геноциду азербайджанцев в Иране. Salamnews.org. 03.11.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/35369/v-baku-proydet-mejdunarodnaya-konferenciya-po-genocidu-azerbaydancev-v-irane/ (rus)
   491
   Депутат ММ: разрушение захоронения азербайджанцев в Иране противоречит исламу. Aze.az. 05.11.2012. http://aze.az/news_deputat_mm_razrushenie_84232.html (rus)
   492
   Массовое захоронение в Иране должно быть сохранено как факт геноцида азербайджанцев – Али Ахмедов. Salamnews.org. 05.11.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/35677/massovoe-zaxoronenie-v-irane-dolno-bit-soxraneno-kak-fakt-genocida-azerbaydancev-ndash-ali-axmedovnbsp (rus)
   493
   https://clck.ru/U8PaK (far.)
   http://isna.ir/fa/news/91081610377/ /ادعای-بی-اساس-محافل-آذربایجانی-درباره-تخریب (far.)
   494
   Принадлежность захоронений в Урмие к мусульманам, подвергшихся геноциду армян, не доказана – посол. Salamnews.org. 27.11.2012. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/41611/prinadlejnost-zaxoroneniy-v-urmie-k-musulmanam-podvergshixsya-genocidu-armyan-ne-dokazana-ndash-posol/ (rus)
   495
   Акиф Меликов: «Я преклоняюсь перед красотой и мудростью азербайджанских женщин». Газета «Эхо». № 99(2781) Пт, 8.16.2012. http://arx.echo.az/index.php?aid=19829 (rus)
   496
   ‘Frozen Conflict’ Between Azerbaijan and Armenia Begins to Boil. Ellen Barry. «The New York Times». May 31, 2011. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/01/world/asia/01azerbaijan.html (en)
   497
   “Qırın ermənin, qırın”. Kulis.az. http://kulis.az/news/4102 (az.)
   498
   Sizözünüzü uşaq yazıçısı hesab edirsinizmi? Eluca Atalı, 06.08.2011, http://eluca.org/index.php/az/muesahiblri/399-siz-oezuenuezue-usaq-yazcs-hesab-edirsinizmi, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/003c3891(az)
   499
   Соколов Р. В поисках «настоящей социальной педагогики» http://altruism.ru/sengine.cgi/5/7/8/17/12 (rus)
   500
   Qafqaz günləri (tərcümədə ixtisara salınmış hissə), Um el Banine, 18.12.2012, http://www.kultura.az/articles.php?item_id=20121217092551908&sec_id=1 (az). Chapter 3, of the book Caucasian Days
   501
   Azərbaycansayağı “düşmənçilik”, Şəbnəm Xeyrulla, 22. 12.2011, http://gundelik-baku.com/engine/print.php?newsid=6537&news_page=1, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/6b93acfc (az)
   502
   Соколов Р. В поисках «настоящей социальной педагогики» «На путях к новой школе» – «На стороне подростка» N 3 200. Изд.: АНО «Агентство образовательного сотрудничества», http://altruism.ru/sengine.cgi/5/7/8/17/12 (rus)
   503
   Müharibənin filmlərdə göstərildiyi zamanlarda… Vüsalə Məmmədova. http://kulis.az/xeber&lt;b&gt;Müharibənin_filmlərdə_göstərildiyi_zamanlarda…&lt;_b&gt;__3422.html. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/b3564d94 (az)
   504
   5 yaşlı qız məktəbdə. Deffektiv.com. 05.04.2011. http://deffektiv.com/5-yasliqiz-məktəbdə/, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/cc32cbe8 (az)
   505
   Niloşla ayaqüstü söhbət, Sevinc Pərvanə. 26.12.2009, http://enyeniedebiyat.com/2009/12/26/sevinc_p601rvan601._u351aq_351eirl601ri.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/75179ee4 (az)
   506
   Üç nəsihət, İbahimova Gülzar, http://www.gulzarnene.com/index.php?id=299 (az)
   507
   Обращение азербайджанской писательницы Гюлзар Ибрагимовой к участникам форума «Open Armenia Worldwide Armenian Forum». http://azerichild.info/mirror_14.html (rus)
   508
   Çinarə Vüqar. Ehtiyatlı olun, Bakıda azərbaycanlılar var. Gundelik-Baku. gundelikbaku.com/index.php?newsid=6527. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/5e82df4b
   509
   At night while he was asleep.
   510
   Azerbaijani journalist sentenced to 8 years for his own interpretation of the Khojaly tragedy running counter to the official version; the journalist acknowledged the existence of the humanitarian corridor and conjectured that the refugees had been shot by Azerbaijani gunmen.
   511
   Çinarə Vüqar. Metronun «28 May» stansiyasının ətrafındakı masaj salonlarını erməni əsilli qadınlar işlədir. Gundelik-Baki 18.10.2011. http://gundelik-baku.com/index.php?newsid=5892. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/9778e43b (az)
   512
   Арлин Одергон. «Отель «Война». Психологическая динамика вооруженных конфликтов» – М: 2008 г. (rus)
   513
   «Qəhrəmanın biri İlham Əliyev, biri də Ramil Səfərovdur» – Zeyneb Xanlarova. Qafqazinfo.az. 04.10.2012. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://peeep.us/bb22773f (az.).
   514
   Дружба азербайджанцев с армянами на Одноклассниках. ру – предательство или сохранение человеческого облика в нечеловеческих условиях – опрос. Trend. 07. 01.2003. http://trend.az/life/socium/1389959.html (rus)
   515
   Ibid.
   516
   Ahriman is the spirit of evil and destruction in the Persian tradition, translator’s note.
   517
   Yerüzünün əhriməni, Şirin xanım Kərimbəyli, http://az.wikibooks.org/wiki/Yer_üzünün_əhrimənii (az)
   518
   Стефаненко Татьяна Гавриловна Этнопсихология: Учебник для вузов, Т. Г. Стефаненко. – 4-е изд, испр. и доп. – М.: Aspect Press, 2009. (rus)
   519
   Erməni, QaraQan “A” romanı (Bölüm 26), http://host-life.ucoz.org/news/200905-31-13 (az)
   520
   Great Soviet Encyclopedia. – М.: Soviet Encyclopedia. 1969–1978. (rus)
   521
   Краевский В.В, Хуторской А.В. Основы обучения. Дидактика и методика. – М.: Pub. «Academia» centre, 2007. – 352 p. (rus)
   522
   О горе-педагогах и бездарных учебниках. Мадатова Я. Minval.az. 27.02.2013. http://minval.az/view.php?id=3262 // the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/e9ab641a (rus)
   523
   К доске! или О ляпах в отечественных учебниках, национальных пословицах в стиле fusion и надежде на будущее. Сапунов С. 1news.az. 23.04.2013. http://1news.az/authors/125/20130423092510869.html (rus)
   524
   Для азербайджанских школьников Толстой скончался… раньше своего рождения. Жучкова М. Vesti.az. 15.09.2011. http://vesti.az/news/89374 (rus)
   525
   History Lessons in Armenia and Azerbaijan, Institute of war and peace reporting. Iwpr.net. 02.03.2012. http://iwpr.net/report-news/history-lessons-armenia-and-azerbaijan (en)
   526
   «Мифы и образы «врага». Юнусов А. Научное общество кавказоведов. 11.10.2011. www.kavkazoved.info/news/2011/10/11/mify-i-obrazy-vraga-v-istoricheskoj-nauke-azerbajdzhana-i.html (rus)
   527
   Op.cit.
   528
   Op.cit.
   529
   Op.cit.
   530
   Баку: ненавидеть Армению учат с начальных классов. Парцвания А. Georgiatimes.info. 20.01.2012. http://georgiatimes.info/articles/70835-1.html (rus)
   531
   In April 2013, he was removed from office.
   532
   Erməni dərsliklərində türklər düşmən rolunda. Musavat.com. 18.05.2013. http://musavat.com/news/kivdf-layihələri/erməni-dərsliklərində-türklər-düşmən-rolunda_124014.html (az)
   533
   Обыкновенный идиотизм азербайджанских учебников. Newsland.com. 26.08.2009. http://newsland.com/news/detail/id/403193/ (rus)
   534
   Ibid.
   535
   Ibid.
   536
   These events are interpreted differently in Azerbaijan and in Armenia.
   537
   Ibid.
   538
   History Lessons in Armenia and Azerbaijan, Institute of war and peace reporting. Iwpr.net. 02.03.2012. http://iwpr.net/report-news/history-lessons-armenia-and-azerbaijan (en)
   539
   Методическое пособие по воспитанию детей в патриотическом духе. Министерство культуры и туризма Азербайджана. Баку. 2009, http://clb.az/files/mv/vetenperver1.pdf (az)
   540
   martyrs, translator’s note.
   541
   Hale, Alisahib Erogul, Baku.«Tekhnur», 2011 г. 608 p. http://azerichild.info/HALE.pdf (az)
   542
   Мифы и образы «врага». Юнусов А. Научное общество кавказоведов. 11.10.2011. www.kavkazoved.info/news/2011/10/11/mify-i-obrazy-vraga-v-istoricheskoj-nauke-azerbajdzhana-i.html (rus)
   543
   Сергей Румянцев. Героический эпос и конструирование образа исторического врага. Империя и нация в зеркале исторической памяти, http://lib.rus.ec/b/429779/read (rus)
   544
   Азербайджанские учебники продолжают парадное шествие. Azerichild.info. http://azerichild.info/books_01.html (rus)
   545
   The history of Sumerians has no record of the Altai Mountains. As for the homeland, they considered the homeland of all the people the high mountains of the Dilmun Island. The reasons that made them leave the mountains are still unknown.
   546
   Turkic people represent an ethno-linguistic community that developed on the territory of Altai and the steppes of Asia in the 1st millennium BC. The question how they could have invented the cuneiform writing system on the other side of the continent 2 thousands of years prior to their own origin remains open.
   547
   Referred precisely asКarli in the textbook.
   548
   While the list of the neighbors of the ancient Azerbaijan (Question№ 5) fails to include the Armenian kingdom, yet, Albania later devastates this non-existent state.
   549
   The king was actually called SanaTRUK and not Sanaturk. A simple reversal of letters metamorphosed the Arshakid king Sanatruk into a proud spawn of the nomadic tribes from Altai.
   550
   Ani is the capital of the ancient Armenian Kingdom of Ani; Dvin is the capital of the Medieval Armenia.
   551
   Ягуб Махмудов, Юсиф Юсифов, Рагим Алиев. История Азербайджана. Учебник для 7 класса. – Baku: «Maarif», 1997, p.19, note 1 and p.24. (rus)
   552
   «МАРксизм – МАРданизм». Марьям Гюнешли. Источник: прекративший свое существование сайт realazer.com a cashed copy can be found here: http://misinformative.info/?p=322 (rus)
   553
   The textbook makes no mention of the agreement between the Shiite and Christian populations of Karabakh dated March 20, 1724.
   554
   С.Мамедов, Т.Велиев, А.Годжаев. История Азербайджана. Учебник для 9 класса. – Baku: «Takhsil», 2002, p.52. (rus)
   555
   История Азербайджана. Учебник для 10 класса общеобразовательной школы. Под ред. Тофика Велиева. – Baku: «Maarif», 1998, p.12. (rus)
   556
   История Азербайджана. Учебник для 11 класса общеобразовательной школы. Под ред. Сейфеддина Гандилова и Исаака Мамедова. – Baku: «Chashyoghly», 2002, p. 17–18. (rus)
   557
   Мифы и образы «врага». Юнусов А. Научное общество кавказоведов. 11.10.2011. www.kavkazoved.info/news/2011/10/11/mify-i-obrazy-vraga-v-istoricheskoj-nauke-azerbajdzhana-i.html (rus)
   558
   Будущее азербайджанской истории в опасности! Vesti.az. 15.08.2011. http://vesti.az/news/86362 (rus)
   559
   Не смотри, как я ворую у тебя, лучше подумай о плохих армянах. Contact.az 04.02.2013. http://contact.az/docs/2013/Want to Say/020400026970ru.htm (rus)
   560
   Change of meaning by misspelling, translator’s note.
   561
   Even if we assume that Movses Kaghankatvatsi was indeed an ancient Azerbaijani, which in itself is rather dubious, there is no way he could have built“the first church in the 1st century B.C.” before the birth of Christ.
   562
   От ошибок в учебниках по истории до их армянской интерпретации. Minval. az. 13.02.2013, http://minval.az/view_yazar.php?id=113. the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/0abcaed6 (rus)
   563
   Докопаться до правды, или Кто и зачем переписывает историю. Газета «Красноярская газета», Красноярск. 28.12.2012. http://rus.ruvr.ru/2012_12_28/Dokopatsja-do-pravdi-ili-Kto-i-zachem-perepisivaet-istoriju/ (rus)
   564
   «Освещение общей истории России и народов постсоветских стран в школьных учебниках истории новых независимых государств», Москва 2009, под. ред. А.А. Данилов, А.В. Филиппов. http://gosklub.ru/files/Doclad_hist_02_light.pdf (rus)
   565
   Гейдар Джемаль: «Армении и армянам – не место на Южном Кавказе». salamnews.org 03.08.2013. http://ru.salamnews.org/ru/news/read/87056/geydar-demal-armenii-i-armyanam-ndash-ne-mesto-na-yujnom-kavkaze/ (rus)
   566
   М. И. Гоголь, 2 октября 1833 г, С.-Петербург (X, 281, 283) (rus)
   567
   Матвеева И.В. «Консультация для психологов. Современная детская книга в зеркале психологии». 13.09.2011. http://docme.ru/doc/82774/kniga-v-zerkale-psihologii (rus)
   568
   “Good” and “Bad” Armenians: Representation of the Karabakh Conflict in Azerbaijani Literature by Leyla Sayfutdinova, collection of selected works “Changing Identities: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia”. http://georgien.boell-net.de/ downloads/2003-2009_eng_PRINT.pdf (en)
   569
   Op.cit.
   570
   Şpion. Şəbnəm Xeyrulla, 11.24.2011, http://www.tarihistan.org/haber/2808s-399bn-399m-xeyrulla-8220spion-8221.html, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/c788aa8a (az)
   571
   Azərbaycansayağı “düşmənçilik”, Şəbnəm Xeyrulla, 22. 12.2011, http://gundelikbaku.com/engine/print.php?newsid=6537&news_page=1, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/6b93acfc (az)
   572
   Doğum Şöbəsində Qətl, Nofel Edalet, http://nofeledalet.blogcu.com/dogum-sobsind-q-tl-hekay/10894262 (az)
   573
   Hale, Alisahib Erogul,«Teknur», 2011 г. 608 p. http://azerichild.info/HALE.pdf (az)
   574
   İlham və Fərizənin nağılı, Gülzar İbrahimova. http://www.gulzarnene.com/index.php?id=228 (az)
   575
   «Yurd Xəbər» Iraqlı deputatın 20 yanvarla bağlı sualarına cavab verə bilməyən şagirdlər. Viseo (az.) http://youtube.com/watch?v=7jPjtnxoPCI#!
   576
   “Good” and “Bad” Armenians: Representation of the Karabakh Conflict in Azerbaijani Literature by Leyla Sayfutdinova, collection of selected works “Changing Identities: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia”. http://georgien.boell-net.de/downloads/2003-2009_eng_PRINT.pdf (en)
   577
   Ibid.
   578
   Г. Гусейнов. Рассказ «Солнечный огонь». 01.02.2013. http://txt.ensayoes.com/docs/index-10971.html?page=2 (rus)
   579
   Babanın ölüm dərsi, Günay Novruz, http://gunaynovruz.com/?page_id=4, the original was removed from source, a cashed copy can be found here: http://www.peeep.us/004ca0ba (az)
   580
   Laçını necə xatırlayırsınız? – Üç nəslin cavabı. Modern.az. 17.05.2012, http://modern.az/articles/24280/1/ (az)
   581
   Как бороться с эпидемией агрессии в современном обществе? 1news.az. 02.08.2013. http://1news.az/analytics/socium/20130802014824104.html (rus)
   582
   Əkrəm Əylisli “Daş yuxular” da nəyi dəyişib? Azadliqradiosu.az. 19.05.2012, http://www.azadliqradiosu.az/content/article/25049133.html (az)
   583
   Mirza Jalil, Sabir are classics of the Azerbaijani literature

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/719141
