
   Cast of Characters
   Ben (protagonist)
   Brandi (sister, 2 years older)
   Brooke (sister, 2 years younger)
   Eden& Emma (twin younger sisters, 5 1/2 years younger)
   Beth (mother)
   Michael (father)
   Abigail (Abbie) Sanders (classmate)
   Adrienne Dennis (classmate, neighbor, cheerleader)
   Allison (Allie) Sanders (classmate)
   Ana Ramirez (summer camp, 5 years younger)
   Andrew Hemingway (summer camp, 1 year younger)
   Candy Carter (classmate, 1 grade above, cheerleader)
   Cassidy O’Leary (classmate)
   Coach Kuznetsov (teacher, coach of school basketball team)
   Daniel Chen (classmate)
   Dawn Evans (summer camp)
   Dayna Evans (summer camp, 2 years older)
   Deanna Evans (summer camp, mother of Evans family)
   Donna Kincaid (classmate, 1 grade above)
   DJ Evans (summer camp, 2 years younger)
   Drew Walker (classmate)
   Elaine Fukuhara (classmate)
   Elyse Laughton (classmate, 1 grade above, cheerleader)
   Felicia Clarkson (summer camp, 4 years older)
   Gary Wong (summer camp, 1 year younger)
   Greg Kinomoto (summer camp, 5 years older)
   Jack Evans (summer camp, father of Evans family)
   Jae Choi (classmate, 1 grade above)
   Jake Harbor (classmate, 1 grade above)
   Jenny Wong (summer camp, 5 years younger)
   Keira McNeil (neighbor)
   Kenny Doyle (classmate)
   Lynne Arian (classmate, cheerleader)
   Mandy Lin (friend of Stacey Whitehouse)
   Megan Kwan (classmate)
   Mizuho Nishioka (classmate, 1 grade above, cheerleader)
   Perry Anderson (classmate, 2 grades below)
   Stacey Whitehouse (classmate, 1 grade above)
   Stephanie Vo (classmate)
   Summer MacIntosh (classmate, 1 grade above, cheerleader)
   Sung Joon (classmate)
   Trevor Hansen (classmate, 1 grade above)
   Other names may be mentioned but are not significant to the story.
   Prologue
   The protagonist begins this story at 16, and while he’s a genuinely nice guy, he acts like a 16-year-old. No, he’s not wise beyond his years, so don’t be surprised when he makes some moronic decisions that may hurt the people he loves.
   This story includes teenager-to-teenager sex, adult sex with a teenager, sibling incest, lesbianism, anal, group sex, and cheating. If any of that bothers you, find another story to read.JUNE 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Ohmigod, ohmigod, ohmigod!”
   “Shh, Abbie. Relax or you’re going to hyperventilate,” I soothed the 16-year-old brunette girl currently skewered on my big dick.
   “I just can’t believe it’s all in me!” Abigail Sanders gasped and squeezed the hand of her twin sister, Allison. “He’s in me Allie!”
   Allie just looked down at her sister’s crotch with wide eyes. “I can’t believe it’s all in you either, Abbie. I never thought it would fit.”
   “Well it does fit,” I chuckled as I pulled my cock out a couple inches and then slowly pushed it back in to the hilt. The girls’ enthusiasm was contagious.
   “Ooohhh…” Abbie sighed. “That was nice. Do it again!”
   This time I pulled back until just my mushroom head was still inside Abbie’s once-virgin pussy. And then I slowly pushed forward again, burrowing my way past the tight constriction of her tunnel, which wasn’t used to being stretched in this manner.
   “Ohmigod!” Abbie exclaimed.
   “That’s so cool!” Allie cheered.
   I stopped again when I was fully buried, then bent down to tenderly kiss Abbie’s lips. She moaned at my touch and released her sister to bring both hands to the back of my head, holding me tightly to her while her tongue came out to play. It felt so good kissing her that for a second my elbows wobbled where I was holding my torso up, preventing myself from crushing the girl beneath me.
   When I pulled my head back, Abbie still had her eyes closed and she whispered rapturously,“So this is what all the fuss is about…”
   “Yeah,” I agreed.
   “It feels so… intimate. You’re so warm and so close to me. You’re… you’re INSIDE me!” Her eyes opened and golden brown shone out.
   I chuckled.“You still haven’t even had the best part. Are you ready to fuck?”
   “Ooh, fuck me, Ben!” Abbie cheered.
   “Yeah, fuck her, Ben!” Allie agreed.
   I pulled back then, almost all the way out. And this time when I pushed in, it wasn’t slowly. With a firm grip on Abbie’s hips, I rammed my pelvis forward and thrust so hard into the young girl’s pussy that it literally took her breath away.
   “Ugh!” Abbie grunted and threw her head back, her jaw flapping around as she gasped for air. And by the time she managed to take a deep breath, I’d already pulled back and thrust forward, knocking the breath out of her once again.
   “Ugh, ugh, ugh,” Abbie started grunting while I pistoned my thick cock in and out of her tight tunnel. Her lips were quivering and her eyes were rolling around while I really began pounding myself into her. The young teen regained the ironclad grip on her sister’s hand, and she began moaning ecstatically as I overloaded her senses.
   But after a couple of minutes, Abbie started to get used to the sensations. She got control of her breathing and her body visibly relaxed. And presently she was able to turn her head to the side and gasp to her twin sister,“He’s fucking me, Allie. Ben’s fucking me! And it feels sooo good!”
   Allie just beamed, knowing her turn was next.
   I started to tire from the rapid in and out thrusting, so I left my dick fully embedded inside Abbie and switched to a circular motion, grinding my pelvic bone against her clit and carving my way around her pussy to help loosen it up. Abbie reacted immediately with a fresh batch of moans, and she began whimpering happily at the feelings I was causing in her.
   I pushed up on my arms, elevating my torso so that I could get a better view of the pretty girl laying supine beneath me. Abigail Sanders was typical of the cute Junior-class girls I hung out with. She wasn’t a cheerleader and she wasn’t one of the most gorgeous girls at school. But she was attractive enough and I had to admit, I’d been pleasantly surprised by her naked body.
   Abbie was more developed than I’d thought, her breasts healthy mounds that sagged just a bit to the sides as she lay on her back. Her pale pink areolas were centered by eraser-sized nipples, and both globes jiggled enticingly with my every thrust. I just had to taste them, so I ducked my head and took a few licks and sucks at each tit before moving back up to refocus on getting the young girl off. I wanted to spurt, but if there was anything my first lover had taught me about sex, it was that I couldn’t cum until after I’d made sure the girl was satisfied.
   Producing female orgasms was easy to do with the woman who’d taught me how to make love. I knew all of her buttons and pleasure centers so that I could play her like a finely-tuned instrument. But the Sanders twins were unknowns to me, so I had to experiment a bit.
   For example, Abbie’s nipples were more sensitive. I couldn’t just maul them like I really wanted to, so I had to be more patient in the way I nursed at the young girl’s teats. She was also a lot tighter, and while she enjoyed the hard thrusting well enough, the slender brunette teen definitely liked my rotating motions much better.
   I was used to the experimentation now. Every girl was different, and Abbie was the fourth Junior-class girl I’d had this year, not to mention my exploits outside of the school’s population… or that Spring Break with the cheerleaders… or those Senior-class chicks the past couple months… Heck, I was pretty sure Allie would be a little different when I took her virginity in another twenty minutes or so, even though the two were identical twins. So I paid attention to Abbie’s moaning and I watched her face carefully while I fucked her. My teacher had told me the most important rule: make the girl happy and she’ll keep coming back for more.
   Soon enough, I’d driven Abbie to the precipice of her first coital orgasm. And when I leaned down to her ear and husked, “Cum for me, Abigail,” I ground my pelvis against her clit and pushed her over the edge.
   “AAAAHHHH!!!” Abbie screamed as she came. Her feet planted onto the bed and she thrust her hips off the mattress. Her right arm was clasping me tightly to her chest while she squeezed her sister’s hand with her left. And as I felt the rippling of her pussy muscles start to calm down, I slammed my hips forward a final time and joined her.
   Abbie’s eyes were wild as she began to return to Earth from her climax. She blinked rapidly and then a sharp gasp interrupted her labored panting. “Ohhh… I can feel it, Allie. I can feel him cumming inside me. It’s sowarm…”
   My ab muscles tensed again and I spat another glob of semen into Abigail Sanders’ no longer virgin pussy. And as my final dry heaves passed, I let the percolating glow of orgasm wash over me. I absolutely loved this feeling. I loved the feel of her warm body crushed beneath my chest. I loved the rapid cooling sensation on my hot, sweaty back. And I loved the simply radiant expression on Abbie’s face as she looked at me adoringly.
   Still squeezing Allie with her left hand, Abbie brought her right up to touch my face and stroke my cheek. I bent to give her a tender kiss, and then slowly I backed my still stiff rod out of her sodden pussy and flopped onto my back beside her.
   Together, we panted for air and stared at the ceiling to fondly recall our lovemaking session.
   But Allison Sanders was getting impatient.“Aww, you’re going soft!”
   “Just gimme a minute, Allie.”
   “I don’t know if I can wait a minute!” she whined. “Can’t you go faster?”
   I chuckled.“Well… if you help me…”
   Allie giggled.“How?”
   After a brief discussion that included the encouragement of her well-fucked older-by-two-minutes twin, Allie was soon bent over my lap slurping on my half-hard cock while I played with her titties.
   Five minutes after that, in almost the exact same voice as her sister, Allie gasped,“He’s in me, Abbie! He’s in me!”
   I began to stroke my cock in and out of my second virgin twin of the last half-hour. And as I looked down at the rapturous expression on Allie’s face, I smiled and began to experiment. By the time I was done, I fully intended to have another happy girl who would keep coming back for more.* * *
   Things were not always this way.
   Up until last year, I was just another virgin teenage boy still dreaming about seeing a live, beautiful woman in the nude. Back then, there were only two types of girls in the world: those too scared to move past first base with me, and those who just plain won’t even GET to first base with me.
   It wasn’t really my fault. I was a late bloomer. When I turned fifteen I was still 5’2”, not exactly a height most girls saw as boyfriend-material, let alone fuck-material. I had a good sense of humor and I wasn’t shy around the girls, but at my size and with my harmless-looking face, I was considered the “safe” guy to be around. And no girl ever wants to have sex with the “safe” guy. Not even the “nice” girls. Even the nice girls want the bad boys. That’s just High School.
   I mean, there were a few girls who wanted to date me. I secretly knew they wanted the bad boys, but they were very shy themselves, usually because they were the plainer-looking girls or late-developers like me. And because of their shyness, they were REALLY slow-moving when it came to physical relationships.
   The brief dates I went on while a freshman didn’t really count. I didn’t even get to kiss the girls. Learning how to kiss didn’t come until that summer, where I got a lot of practice and got pretty good at it. But that’s a story for a little later.
   Then at the beginning of Sophomore year, Cassidy O’Leary was really nice to me and we dated for almost three weeks. It took two of those weeks before she’d let me practice my newly-learned kissing on her.
   Now I wasn’tactually a nice guy. I was a walking hormone and I wanted to fuck every pretty girl in sight. But the moment I tried going for some boob, she pushed my hand away and pleaded with me not to rape her.
   Well, my“safe” reputation had been the only thing getting me these dates in the first place, so I did my usual “Sorry, I’m just a guy” apology, blaming my actions on teenaged male hormones, and she eventually let me put my tongue in her mouth, even if I couldn’t cop a feel of her tits.
   Then, when Cassidy finally decided she was ready to move past first base, she began crushing on one of the basketball players and broke up with me to try and land him instead.
   I didn’t complain. Three days later, Megan Kwan, one of her best friends, asked me out. I didn’t get any farther with her either. After the end of our second date, Megan let me kiss her. But there was no third date because she decided she wasn’t ready to have a boyfriend yet and Megan and I went back to being friends.
   As for the girls who I KNEW would go farther? Well, most guys in the school knew they would go farther as well. And those guys were all taller than me. So I wasn’t even ON those girls’ radar. I had a snowball’s chance in hell of getting laid with one of them.
   Now if there’s one good thing about being the “safe” guy, it was that none of the girls were afraid to be around me. I had a disproportionate number of female friends, and I became a VERY, VERY good listener. I learned a lot about what girls wanted and what frightened them and the things a guy needed to say to make her feel more comfortable.
   I hoped my listening would all pay off someday. And when my growth spurt finally hit in the second half of Sophomore Year, it finally did.
   Chapter 1: The NeighborAPRIL 2000, SOPHOMORE YEAR
   “Wow, Ben! You’ve really sprouted, haven’t you?”
   “Uh, I guess so, Miss McNeil.” I shrugged. I stood in front of my neighbor’s house wondering how long she was going to chat with me before getting to the point. It was a Saturday, and I’d much rather be zoned out in front of the TV right now. What do you expect? I was a 16-year-old boy. Butmy mom had ordered me to go help our neighbor with some housework and being a “nice” young man, I obediently went to help.
   “I just saw you two weeks ago,” she said in amazement. “Have you grown another inch?”
   “Uh, maybe,” I answered and looked at the floor. I KNEW I’d grown an extra inch to reach 5’9”. Maybe not in two weeks, but certainly in the last month. I’d been averaging an inch a month since January and I measured myself almost every day hoping for another eighth of an inch. Now, I was already three inches taller than HER now after living my life looking up to Miss McNeil. And at the rate I was going, I had dreams of reaching six feet.
   Miss McNeil just leaned against the doorjamb and stared in amazement at me, her pale green eyes stark against the backdrop of her dark brown hair, which was pulled back into a casual ponytail. I tried not to notice her long legs clad in some very short shorts. The tight, white, V-necked baby-T hugged her curves and showed off her sizeable cleavage. Ever since my growth spurt had begun, my hormones had been in overdrive and it seemed like I was constantly thinking about sex. But fortunately, Miss McNeil was so distracted looking at me she didn’t notice me ogling her tits.
   Forcing my eyes up to her face, I hefted the tool box in my left hand and stammered,“Uh, my mom told me to come by here. She said you needed help with something?”
   She broke from her reverie and blinked a few times. Her pale skin turned a rosy pink as she blushed and then she smiled at me.“Right, right. There’re some slats on the porch railing that broke off during that last storm. And my yard is a mess of fallen tree branches.”
   I turned and looked at the damage. Storms in Southern California usually weren’t a big deal, but it HAD been windy and she was right, the railing was damaged.
   “Sorry,” she leaned forward and apologized with her eyes. “I can’t do anything anymore without a man in the house.”
   I nodded. Miss McNeil’s husband had died in a car accident three years earlier. She was only 25 then. And in the intervening three years, I’d never once seen her date. It was inconceivable that such a beautiful young woman was still without a man in her life. Really, she was gorgeous and youthful. If she walked around my high school campus, dozens of guys would be asking her out.
   “Okay, no problem. Are those standard sectionals they have at Home Depot?” I asked.
   “You know, I have no idea. Colin put that together.” She winced slightly at the mention of her husband’s name. I figured that was why she was still single. She hadn’t yet gotten over her husband’s death.
   “It’s alright. I’ll figure it out,” I assured her, moving the subject along. “Okay then, I’ll drive out and pick up what’s needed. Should be back in a half-hour.” I started to turn away.
   “Really? Drive?” Miss McNeil looked surprised.
   “Yeah. I turned sixteen last week.” Grinning, I pulled my car keys out of my pocket and tossed them in the air. My parents had bought me a 10-year-old Corolla. Nothing to impress girls with, but they were MY set of wheels.
   “Well, happy belated birthday, Ben.”
   “Thanks.”
   “Bring back a receipt,” Miss McNeil reminded me. She crossed her arms over her chest, which inadvertently lifted and pressed her breasts together.
   “Sure thing. See you later,” I told her tits.
   “Bye.”* * *
   Two hours later, the sun was ascending high into the sky and sweat was literally dripping off my body. It was April, which was technically springtime. But in Orange County, California, that meant the occasional 90+ degree weather. So I’d stripped off my shirt and then poured half the contents of my water bottle over my head to cool off.
   Repairing the railing had been a simple enough job. There were only two damaged sections, and a few tugs on the crowbar had pulled them loose. Nailing in the newly-bought pieces from Home Depot went quickly. Painting them took less than 20 minutes from prep to finish.
   More of a hassle was picking up the strewn tree branches from around the yard. My muscles bulged as I used shears and a hacksaw to cut the branches down so they’d fit into the big green trash bin. And there were enough branches and debris that my 16-year-old body was getting tired.
   “Wow, Ben. You’re looking good!”
   The girlish voice had my attention immediately. I picked up my head and spun around in an awful hurry to see who was talking, and managed to scrape my arm on a branch in the process.
   “Oww!” I yelped in instinct and shook out my arm, then turned and blushed to see Adrienne Dennis standing on the sidewalk, grinning at me.
   “Oh, sorry!” she giggled. “Did you hurt yourself? I didn’t mean to distract you.”
   “Uh, just a scratch,” I shrugged while deliberately pitching my voice lower. To tell the truth, the scratch stung like a motherfucker, and it was already forming a bright red welt. But I acted like it was nothing.
   The gorgeous blonde teenager obviously let her eyes trail down my bare chest and naked torso before coming back up to my face. She grinned flirtatiously and giggled again.“You’re growing up, Ben.”
   “I guess.” I shrugged again, playing it cool. At least, I played it as cool as a horny 16-year-old could. I tried to keep a straight face while I flexed my pectorals and tried to squeeze my abs. At this point in my growth spurt, I was still wiry and skinny instead of muscular, but I had pretty good definition.
   “Well, I’ll see you at school, Ben. Sorry again for distracting you.” Adrienne flashed me a brilliant smile and then turned to walk across the street to her house. I held my pose for another ten seconds until I was sure she wasn’t going to turn back around towards me, and then I loudly exhaled and shook out my limbs as I let my body relax.
   Adrienne Dennis was one of the hottest and most popular girls in school. She was a sophomore, like me, but she’d gotten her growth spurt early, reaching 5’10” and already had a D-cup at only fifteen. Along with a blessedly pretty face and a cheery blonde demeanor, Adrienne naturally fell in with the coolest cliques.
   For the last six years we’d grown up on the same street together. But that proximity had never led to us being friends. She was cool, and I was… short. I had lots of female friends, but the hottest chicks weren’t among them. So sure, Adrienne knew who I was and I DEFINITELY knew who she was, but that conversation we’d just had was our longest conversation since Junior High.
   Adrienne also had WAY more sex than I’d ever had. She was kind of a slut that way, or so the rumors went. She’d dated four different guys from the football team last year, and three on the basketball team. Even as a 14-year-old freshman, word around school was that all seven guys had gone all the way with her. This year she’d switched to water polo, but her latest boyfriend had lasted for six months so only two guys had gotten into her panties this year.
   She’d been careful not to get herself into any bad situations like a gangbang or anything, but from her initials A.D., she had the legendary nickname of “All-Day”, referring to her ability to have sex for hours and hours on end. She certainly had plenty of unsupervised time. Her mom died years ago and her dad was a workaholic who was never, ever home.
   Some might think that her reputation as a slut would be a turn-off. Nope. Her reputation just made every male in school hope they could be next, including me. So as I watched Adrienne’s tight ass swaying beneath her skirt as she walked across the street to her house, I felt a flush of confidence in me that All-Day Adrienne had noticed that I was starting to look good.
   “She’s right you know.”
   The new voice had me spinning around again, although I managed not to scrape myself on a branch this time.
   Miss McNeil was standing on her porch looking at me with a little smile on her face and a glass of lemonade in her hand. She smiled at me.“You ARE looking pretty good. Get some meat on your bones and you’ll be quite the handsome devil, Ben.”
   I blushed and looked at my feet.
   Then Miss McNeil started laughing,“But right now, you just look a mess.” She stepped off the porch and came towards me in the yard to bring me the lemonade. “You’ve got paint splatters on your shorts and so much dirt!”
   I shrugged and didn’t respond verbally. Miss McNeil may have been talking about the paint on my shorts, but her gaze was on my bare chest.
   “And… oh!” Her tone jumped as she exclaimed suddenly, “Are you hurt?” Miss McNeil came up to me and held my arm, twisting it over to see the bright red welt that was snaking up the length of my forearm, which was also starting to ooze blood by now.
   “Oh, well… it’s nothing,” I drawled, playing it cool once again. Miss McNeil may be an adult, but she was still a pretty girl. And every instinct in me told me to act brave in front of a pretty girl.
   “Nothing? We’ve got to clean this up before you get an infection or something.” She tugged on my arm and started pulling me towards the house. “Let’s get you inside.”
   “But… I’m almost done!” I protested.
   “You can finish later.”
   Five minutes later, I was sitting on a toilet with my arm in the sink. Miss McNeil had just finished washing it off with plenty of soap, and the basin was filled with murky brown water spiraling down into the drain. I probably could have cleaned it off myself, but I didn’t mind letting her do her thing. It actually felt pretty good to have Miss McNeil’s soft hands against my skin. Having her wash off my arm was the most female contact I’d had in a while.
   That, and in the process of cleaning me, Miss McNeil had splashed some water onto her white shirt which was turning the material translucent and making it cling to the curves of her breasts. The shirt wasn’t soaked, but there were enough wet spots to stir my imagination and also reveal the lace pattern of her bra. I spent the entire time staring at her tits as they bulged out the V-necked top.
   Oblivious to my gaze, Miss McNeil then left the bathroom for a minute and came back with a tube of Neosporin. There was also a small step-stool in the bathroom and she pulled it over to sit down on as she grabbed my arm again and started slathering on the ointment.
   The thing with the step-stool was, it was about a foot shorter than the toilet seat I was on. And as Miss McNeil leaned forward to tend to my arm, I now had an absolutely PERFECT view down the front of her shirt.
   And the view of her creamy breasts had the expected effect on my crotch.
   “There!” The attractive 28-year-old brunette finished up and capped the Neosporin. “All better!”
   I managed to move my eyes up to meet her cool green gaze just in time. But then I saw a twitch in her cheek and I watched as her gaze dropped down to my lap, where my cock was making quite the tent in my khaki cargo shorts.
   “Oh, my,” she gasped and held a hand over her mouth.
   I blushed scarlet crimson and bit my lip while quickly moving a hand to cover the intruder.“Sorry. I’m just a guy. I couldn’t help it.”
   Still with one hand over her mouth, Miss McNeil canted her head to the side as she continued to stare at the bulge.“Is that… because of Adrienne?”
   “Uh… no, Miss McNeil,” I winced.
   “Then… because of me?” she asked in obvious disbelief.
   “Well,” I waggled my hand for a moment before pointing at her chest. “You’re kinda giving me a really nice view,” I stammered. “Sorry, I didn’t mean to stare.”
   Miss McNeil gasped and then put both hands over her chest as she looked down and saw the cleavage-view she was giving me.“Oh. Oh! Sorry, I didn’t realize. These are just clothes for around the house. I wasn’t expecting visitors.”
   “No need to apologize. I rather liked the view,” I smiled weakly.
   Something in her green eyes flashed as she looked back up at me, but it was quickly smothered out.“Well, uh, Ben. You’re all cleaned up now.” Miss McNeil pointedly looked away from me as she stood up, still with her hands over her chest. “I guess you can finish up and then go home.”
   “Sure, Miss McNeil.” The situation was awkward and if there’s something teenagers HATE, it’s ‘awkward’. Without another word, I left the bathroom and headed outside.
   It only took me another half-hour before I was done. I didn’t bother to go say anything to Miss McNeil. She saw me through the window when I rolled her trash can back to its spot in the garage and I just waved goodbye.* * *
   Life at school continued on as it always had.
   I doodled in my notebook during class. I played pickup basketball games during breaks, and politely said“hello” to every pretty girl I knew who passed me in the hallways.
   Most of them even said“hello” back. I was still one of the “safe” guys and we were on friendly terms. But there was one girl who didn’t say “hello” back.
   Despite our brief conversation yesterday, when I passed Adrienne Dennis in the hallway she didn’t even nod when I offered her a casual greeting. She was too starry-eyed for her Junior-class boyfriend and probably hadn’t noticed my existence. I just watched her big tits jiggling in her too-tight top, and when she passed I let my head turn around to follow her for a moment before the soundof someone else’s voice grabbed my attention.
   “Dream on, Ben,” Megan Kwan teased before offering me a warm smile. She and I had the same fifth period class together and we often met up halfway. “Adrienne’s WAY out of your league.”
   I shrugged and kept walking.“Is that why YOU won’t go out with me anymore, Megan? You’re out of my league, too?”
   Megan punched me in the shoulder.“Yes. Me and my flat chest are out of your league.”
   I smiled right back while Megan looked forlornly at her small breasts. She was a late bloomer like me, and over the past year we’d often commiserated over our lack of development. Our only two dates had been at the beginning of the academic year, and even though we hadn’t become boyfriend or girlfriend or anything, Megan and I had become pretty good friends. She respected that I didn’t push her past kissing or pressure her for more dates; and I liked that she hadn’t made fun of my rather short height. Perhaps because she’d been an inch shorter than me at the time had something to do with it. But I’d been growing since then and she was now up to 5’4” herself.
   “I don’t know, Megan,” I drawled. “Guys have this hotness meter to determine if a girl is out of his league. Now I know you weren’t out of my league when we went on those dates, but your boobs HAVE been getting bigger. I think I need to feel their new size to decide if you’re out of my league now or not.”
   “Ben!” Megan pretended to be shocked while she covered her chest with her arms. “Are you trying to talk your way into copping a feel?”
   “I’m just a guy, Megan.” I grinned and we both started laughing.
   “Stop flirting, you two,” a new voice cut in from behind us. Cassidy O’Leary was also in our fifth period and she’d caught up to us with a teasing grin on her face. “If you guys ever actually start dating again, who the heck am I going to hang out with?”* * *
   Life at home continued on as it always had.
   I got home. I did my homework. I ate dinner, and then I holed up in front of the family room TV playing video games.
   When my mom asked if I’d finished my homework, I simply moaned “YES” and went back to button-mashing. I really had done most of my homework, the exception being Biology; but I knew Kenny Doyle would let me copy his answers in the morning.
   After my mom failed to dislodge me from the TV, my little sister Brooke tried next. She wanted to watch some dumb girls show but I just ignored the little twerp, who at 14 was two years younger than me. She did try to manually power off the gaming console, but I was quick to yell and spanked her ass twice before she ran away covering her butt.
   My baby twin sisters Eden and Emma, who were only 10, came next. The twins and I never had any problems as I was always looking out for my littlest sisters, ever since they were infants. And the twins adored their big brother, so they had no interest in stopping my gaming. Instead, the girls just plopped onto the couch and sat on either side of me, leaning against me and peppering me with questions about what was going on and why I was trying to steal that car and whether I would steal the pink one if Emma asked me to.
   So of course, I stole the pink car for Emma. Then I had to find another pink one for Eden.
   The one who eventually got me off the video game console was my big sister, Brandi. Even though she was only two years older than me, she wielded that interval like a club. You know, she had the‘I am the older sibling so you will jump when I tell you to’ kind of bossiness.
   I’d thought Brandi had another date with her boyfriend tonight and would be out of the house, but I guess not. She came into the family room and ordered me off the TV so she could watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I was actually taller than her now and much stronger, but I had too many memories of the big troll beating me up to get her way, so when she started barking at me I sighed and switched off the game.
   Eden and Emma went to go play with own things or something while I headed to my room. I figured now was as good a time as any to open my stash of stolen Playboys and jerk off to some titties.* * *
   It was a little over a week later when I found myself in front of Miss McNeil’s house. It was a Saturday, and I’d much rather be zoned out in front of the TV right now. But my mom had ordered me to go help our neighbor with some housework and being a “nice” young man, I obediently went to help… AGAIN.
   At least this time I really HAD grown another eighth of an inch. But I figured I’d better get to at least 5’9” and three-quarters before claiming I was 5’10”. 5’9” and an eighth just didn’t have the same ring to it.
   “Hi, Ben.” Miss McNeil smiled at me and I swear I saw another flash of something in her green eyes when she opened the door. I’d also been hoping for another glimpse of her big tits, but unfortunately, this time she was wearing a thick house robe that obscured everything from view.
   I hefted the tool box in my left hand and said,“Hi Miss McNeil. Mom said you needed some help?”
   “Yes, Ben. Come on in.” She stood back and let me into the house, closing the door behind us. “The towel bar in the bathroom fell off and I’m not sure how to put it back.”
   “Oh, that’ll be easy.” I’d already fixed two towel bars in my own house. I let Miss McNeil lead the way and it turned out, we were going into the same bathroom I’d been in the last time. Sure enough, one of the brackets had fallen off when the screws came loose from the wall, and the towel bar was tilted at a slight angle from where the remaining bracket still anchored it.
   “How’s that scratch, Ben?” Miss McNeil asked while I surveyed the damage.
   Automatically, I looked at my arm.“Oh, that’s already gone. I told you it was nothing.”
   “Really? Let me see.” Miss McNeil was suddenly beside me and pushing on my shoulder, and the next thing I knew she’d sat me down on the toilet seat. Reaching out with one arm, she then pulled the step-stool over and sat down on it. Only then did I realize that her robe had come loose, and shehad on the exact same white, V-necked baby-T that she’d been wearing last week.
   Then, taking my arm, Miss McNeil made a big show of inspecting every millimeter of skin on my arm to look for traces of the old welt, leaning forward in her seat so that once again, I had a simply WONDERFUL view down the front of her shirt.
   Like magnets, the pair of gorgeous breasts drew my attention and held it. And while Miss McNeil continued moving my arm around, I continued staring at her tits.
   The view of her creamy breasts had the expected effect on my crotch.
   I was so enraptured with the sight of those heavenly globes that I didn’t even realize that a full five minutes had passed. I barely blinked, afraid to lose even a moment of available tit-viewing. And only after those five minutes did I realize that Miss McNeil wasn’t even looking at my arm anymore. She was staring at the tent in my shorts.
   I was wearing a different pair of cargo shorts this time, but the material was no more effective at obscuring my erection. When I finally managed to pull my gaze away from Miss McNeil’s breasts so that I could see where she was looking, I began to examine her face.
   Her skin was flushed a soft pink, and I could see small beads of sweat forming in her hair line. She was panting softly, very softly, and those bright green eyes were simply locked onto my crotch as firmly as my eyes had just recently been locked onto her chest.
   “Can I see it?” Miss McNeil said just barely above a whisper.
   “Huh?”
   “Can I see it? I haven’t seen one in over three years.” Her pink tongue snaked out and rapidly licked across her upper lip. It was the sexiest thing I’d ever seen. And with her youthful face absent of makeup and her wide-eyed expression, I could almost believe this gorgeous brunette was just another hot Senior-class chick or a college girl at the oldest. She was just another pretty girl with whom I might want to get naked.
   I realized that my heart had already begun beating faster as I ogled the tops of Miss McNeil’s breasts. But now, my heart was thumping even harder in my chest and I found myself suddenly paralyzed with fear. Did she really want to see my dick?
   “Uh, I’m not sure,” I began nervously. “I mean, I’ve never really been naked in front of a girl, Miss McNeil.”
   “Would it help if I took off my shirt?” She asked quickly and her eyes darted up into mine.
   My eyes flew open and my hormones answered way before my brain could react.“Hell, yeah!” I exclaimed.
   Then before I could even blink, Miss McNeil shrugged her arms out of the robe and then crossed her arms down before whipping the T-shirt off, leaving her upper body clad only in that lacey white bra I’d been glimpsing. She bit her lip and then started glancing back and forth between my crotch and my face.
   For a second, I just stared at her breasts encased in the bra, seeing just how the titflesh strained to be freed from the confining fabric. In fact, the bra seemed to be a little too tight, the edges of the bra cups denting in her breasts slightly while the rest of her boobs tried to spill over the top ever so slightly. And the sight had my heart absolutely racing.
   Now sure, I’d seen this much of a live pair of tits before. Many of the girls had bikinis that covered far less. But none of those girls had been just a foot away and there was something inherently… sexier… about a bra compared to a bikini top. The fact that a bra wasn’t meant to be seen in public made the sight just so much more alluring.
   Miss McNeil whimpered and stared at my crotch again, which shook me from my reverie. I was taking too long before showing her my cock. So my hands immediately went to the clasp of my shorts and I started to pull them off…
   … but then I stopped. An idea had come to my head and I threw caution to the wind. “Wait, I’m guessing you want to see my dick naked.”
   She just nodded hurriedly.
   “Well, it’s only fair then if you take your bra off too, right?”
   Without hesitation, Miss McNeil quickly reached behind her back, flipped the catch, and then shrugged out of the bra. My brain went into slow motion then, and my pupils dilated as wide as possible as the white fabric slowly descended down the curves of her breasts. My breath caught as the dusky pink areola came into view, followed shortly by eraser-hard nipples. And then, the white fabric fell off into thin air as the bra slowly collapsed into her lap.
   I was so stunned and shocked by the sight of my first ever pair of adult naked tits that my hands started twitching and my mouth gaped as I ogled away to my heart’s content.
   “Oh, for crying out loud,” Miss McNeil whined when it was clear my body had gone rigid and that I wasn’t about to continue removing my shorts anytime soon. She quickly batted my hands away and finished unbuttoning me herself, unzipping me and then grabbing both the shorts and my boxers and then tugging fiercely down my legs.
   Almost immediately, my seven-inch (and three-eighths) dick sprang out and bounced off my belly before wobbling to a standstill at roughly a 75-degree angle from my crotch. My new dick had come with the growth spurt and after glancing around the locker room at school, I knew I’d gotten a pretty good one. That pride coupled with the idea that it was naked in front of a pretty girl had my cock absolutely rock hard.
   “Ohhh…” Miss McNeil moaned as my prick came into view. Her mouth opened and again, her tongue snaked out to lick across her upper lip. And then once she pulled my shorts down to my ankles with my bare ass on top of the toilet seat cover, she extended her hands towards my swaying member.
   Miss McNeil reached for me so suddenly that it startled me, and I barked“Hey!” as I cowered back away from her hands.
   Her hands stopped immediately and she looked pleadingly into my eyes.
   I recovered from the momentary surprise and asked,“You want to touch it?”
   She nodded and then moved her hands to grab my own. And then before I could react, she pulled my hands to her breasts, planting my palms against each large orb where my fingers reflexively clamped down.
   “Oh, shit!” I gasped as I felt my first ever pair of naked tits. And then when Miss McNeil reached forward and grasped my cock with both of her hands, I groaned and grunted, “Oh, shit!” again.
   My mind was racing.‘She’s touching me! A pretty girl is touching me! I’m touching her tits! I’m touching her tits! And she’s touching my dick! Holy SHIT!’
   Her tongue snaked out along her upper lip once again, and this time, I didn’t even twitch before Miss McNeil ducked her head and clamped her lips around my cock. I felt the sudden wet warmth as her mouth surrounded my sensitive head while she hummed a loud and happy “Hmmm!” And then I felt the powerful vacuum of air moving inside her mouth as she began sucking.
   ‘Holy SHIT!!!’
   I groaned instinctively as my ab muscles suddenly began twitching, and then I felt a sudden, wonderful, heavenly relief exploding through my body as my hips reflexively jerked upwards, shoving an extra inch of cock into Miss McNeil’s mouth. And then I started cumming.
   I knew what an ejaculation was. Hey, I was sixteen. I’d masturbated a hundred thousand times already. But this was no mere ejaculation. This… this was AMAZING!
   I grunted“Miss McNeil!” as my hands reflexively squeezed and then I felt myself pouring out my cum into her mouth. Her head jerked when she felt the first splash against her throat and then she was swallowing rapidly, the contractions in her mouth only heightening my orgasm as I continued to spurt and spurt and spurt. She moaned through her nose as I filled her with more semen the moment she swallowed the last batch, and as my butt sagged back down to the toilet seat cover I felt her right hand jacking me to coax even more spunk out of my balls.
   It felt like I was cumming for hours. It felt so exquisitely good that I never wanted it to stop, and every time I thought I’d squeezed out my last shot, her nimble fingers pulled another one out of me.
   Alas, all good things must come to an end.
   I let out one last grunt and pushed out one last dribble of jism. Miss McNeil popped off my cock and then leaned down to swipe that last glob off my tip with her tongue, and then she sat back on the step-stool, panting softly with a deeply satisfied expression on her face. Her eyelids drooped. Her lower jaw hung open, and yet she was obviously smiling.
   “Oh, that tasted wonderful,” she sighed contentedly.
   We were both silent for a long few minutes. I sagged against the toilet basin, completely in disbelief at what had just happened. Did Miss McNeil really just give me a blowjob? Had I really just cum in her mouth? Did she really just swallow every single drop like the porn stars in dad’s videotapes?
   It felt like forever before Miss McNeil spoke. I’d seemingly gotten over my disbelief rather quickly as I got myself absorbed in ogling her bare breasts again. I didn’t know if I would ever get to see her tits after today, so I wanted to soak up every moment I could. I would have put my hands on them again if I was sure it wouldn’t earn mea slap in the face and have her quickly put her robe back on.
   There had been a gleam in Miss McNeil’s eyes for the entire time we’d been in the bathroom. But now, that gleam started to fade away and all of a sudden, Miss McNeil was looking at me like I was a terrifying stranger sitting half-naked in her bathroom. She bit her lip and then looked down at her own nakedness. That pink blush cameinto her skin again and then in embarrassment, she suddenly covered her chest with her arms.
   “Ben?” She asked as if she wasn’t sure of my name. Her gaze was fixed onto the wall behind me.
   “Yeah, Miss McNeil?”
   “Did I just… did we…?” Her face screwed up in confusion.
   “Uh… yeah…”
   “You won’t tell your mother, will you?”
   I shook my head. There were a lot of things I kept from my mom. Anything having to do with sex was at the top of that list. Besides, there was no way my mom would believe me anyways.
   “Good. Uh… you should probably put your clothes back on.”
   “Right, right.” I quickly pulled up my shorts and Miss McNeil was already hunting around for her bra. She found her shirt, but the bra had somehow scooted next to me on the toilet. I reached down to pick it up and couldn’t help but notice the tag reading: 34C.
   She quickly snatched it out of my hands and then began putting her breasts away, taking away the heavenly view. Once I got myself fixed up, I just sat there on the toilet seat cover and watched her put her shirt and robe back on.
   Miss McNeil’s lower jaw quivered as she stood up, and then I stood up as well. In the cramped confines of the bathroom, we were standing just a few inches apart. I pulled myself up to my full height, looking down from three inches (and an eighth) above her.
   At first, she wouldn’t look at me. But then, her gaze slowly swept up until her eyes met mine.
   Miss McNeil looked so beautiful in that moment. Her green eyes were sparkling. She had a perfect nose and great cheekbones. And I stared at her lips, so full and pink and so recently wrapped around my cock. And then I did the most impulsively aggressive thing I’d ever done in my life. Nice guys didn’t do things like this, but then, I wasn’t REALLY a nice guy inside.
   I bent and pressed my lips to hers, planting a fierce kiss borne of instinct on her mouth and pushing hard enough to stumble Miss McNeil off balance so that her back banged up against the wall behind her. And my mouth went with her. So a second later, I was crushing Miss McNeil, this beautiful 28-year-old widow, against the wall as I did my best to devour her mouth with my own while she whimpered and clutched her hands at my shoulders.
   It wasn’t my best kissing job. I was wet and slobbery and overly enthusiastic. But this kiss felt as thrilling as the blowjob had been. And from the moan that sounded deep in her throat and the way her hands grasped my back, Miss McNeil didn’t seem to mind.
   I could taste my own semen on her breath. I didn’t care. Kissing her just felt too damn good. I would have kissed her for eternity if she’d let me. But after a few minutes, Miss McNeil tapped my shoulder and then pulled her head away, “Stop it, Ben. Stop.”
   I didn’t want to stop. I kissed her for another ten seconds before she pulled away.
   “Stop!” She rapped her hands on my shoulders repeatedly until I finally stopped pecking my head at hers.
   We were both panting hard, our eyes wild as we looked at each other. I wanted to kiss her again so badly… SO badly. I stared hungrily into her eyes, and then Miss McNeil sighed and said, “Okay, one more.”
   I was suddenly on her and we were kissing like we’d never stopped. My mind was swept away on a whirlwind of passion and lust and I groaned into our liplock as happy as I’d ever been in my life.
   I ruined it then. My hands, which had been wrapped around Miss McNeil’s waist, automatically started moving in different directions. My right hand pushed lower until I was palming her ass. And my left hand started creeping up her belly towards those heavenly breasts once again.
   But all girls seem to have a“roaming hands” alert. Miss McNeil pulled away and grabbed my wrists. “No, Ben. No.”
   I whined but quieted quickly. I was used to girls defending my hands away from their juicy bits.
   “Go home, Ben. Please. Go home.” Miss McNeil’s eyes searched back and forth between mine. I got the distinct impression that if I pushed just a little bit harder, she would probably let me kiss her again. She might actually let me do even more than just kiss. But there was a plea in her eyes for me to leave.
   So I left.
   Hey, I guess there’s a little bit of “nice guy” in me after all.* * *
   It’s amazing how an orgasm can transform your life. For a teenaged boy, there exists a kind of calm serenity that you only feel when you’ve cum in such an incredibly powerful way with a beautiful girl. I felt like I was floating on air, drifting through life like a leaf on the wind.
   “Ben? Earth to Ben?”
   I blinked twice and then looked over to see my best friend Kenny Doyle with a silly grin on his face. He was halfway to the lunch line, but I’d just kept walking ahead, oblivious to where we were going.
   “Where wereyou going?” he asked as I caught up to him.
   “Nowhere, nowhere,” I stammered.
   “Jeez,” Kenny drawled as we settled into line. “You seem pretty out of it. If I didn’t know any better, I’d have thought you’d gotten laid or something.”
   Fortunately, Kenny had already turned to walk a few steps forward with the lunch line and didn’t notice the red blush that filled my cheeks. It was Monday, and even though nearly two full days had passed, I was still daydreaming about Miss McNeil’s blowjob.
   It had been so incredibly wonderful. My first blowjob. My first orgasm with someone other than myself. I’d seen enough porn videos to know I should have lasted longer than three seconds, but I’d take three seconds of being inside a gorgeous woman’s mouth over my right hand any day. And I knew I could do better, if Miss McNeil would let me.
   “Wait… you didn’t ACTUALLY get laid or something, did you?”
   Well, Kenny had turned back around and saw the blush in my cheeks. And for a moment, I was about to tell him the truth that yes, I had gotten my dick sucked and yes, she swallowed all my cum. But two things held me back.
   One, the girl immediately behind Kenny had turned to eavesdrop when she heard the word“laid” come out of Kenny’s mouth. I’d spent enough time being friends with the girls to know that they HATED it when a guy blabbed about how lucky they’d gotten. And anything I said around the lunch crowd would immediately become a part of the rumor mill.
   Two, I figured that if anyone found out, then eventually my mom would find out, and I’d NEVER get the chance to do anything with Miss McNeil again.
   And I very much wanted that chance again.
   Ten minutes later, I was staring off into space again when Megan said,“Ben? Earth to Ben?”
   I blinked twice to see Megan looking at me with a puzzled expression on her face. Cassidy was staring as well, along with half the table. Our usual lunch crew consisted of eight sophomore girls and five sophomore guys. Six of them were staring at me like I’d grown a horn out of my forehead.
   “See?” Kenny waved to my face from right beside me. “Eric Bradford had the same look last week when Lynne Arian put out for him. I’m telling you, Ben got laid and he’s not telling.”
   I colored red but frowned.“What?”
   Abigail Sanders canted her head to the side.“Ooh! Anyone we know?”
   Allison Sanders was quick to add,“How was it?”
   Daniel Chen squinted as he read my gaze.“I dunno…”
   Megan had a cold look in her eyes.“You DID say ‘hi’ to Adrienne the other day.”
   I rolled my eyes.“Adrienne Dennis? Yeah, right. And even if I DID, you think I’d start blabbing about it? Lynne dumped Eric the next day after he told half the baseball team.”
   Megan said quietly,“That’s not a ‘no’.”
   I sighed.“I did NOT get laid, Megan,” I said seriously, and then swept my gaze across my friends as if daring them to call me a liar. Technically, it was the truth. I HADN’T had sex. It was just a blowjob.
   My cute Chinese friend searched my eyes for another moment, and then she shrugged. Staring at her plate, Megan remarked,“None of our business anyways.”
   Twice that school week, I nearly walked up to Miss McNeil’s door after school. I had no plan. I just wanted to show up and see if she’d give me a blowjob again. But I was nervous and I also couldn’t figure out a plausible reason for going over there. What would I say? ‘Hi, remember me? I came in your mouth? Could we try that again?’
   It wasn’t until Saturday that I got my chance.* * *
   “Ben?”
   “Yeah mom?”
   “Miss McNeil called. She said that towel bar fell off again. You must not have done a very good job fixing it up.”
   I picked my head up. I knew I hadn’t done a good job fixing it up. In fact, I hadn’t done ANYTHING to the towel bar. I’d been too busy getting my dick sucked. Sheepishly, I answered, “Uh, sure mom. I’ll go right over.”
   I walked as calmly as I could out the front door. My mom actually had to remind me to grab the tool box. I’d been thinking sex not work. And then as soon as I got out of sight, I literally sprinted down the sidewalk to Miss McNeil’s house.
   “Hi Ben.” Miss McNeil looked nervously at me when she opened the door. She was wearing the house robe again, which obscured everything from view.
   “Hi Miss McNeil,” I said nervously as I shifted my weight from side-to-side and hefted the tool box in my left hand. “Mom said you needed some… help?” I added a little extra emphasis at that last word.
   “Uh, uh… come on in.” The beautiful brunette looked at the floor as she backed up to let me into the house. “We never did fix that towel bar.”
   “I remember,” I said earnestly and tried to look her in the eyes, but she wouldn’t meet my gaze. Shrugging, I quickly walked to the bathroom. There, I turned and sat down on the toilet seat cover and started to open the clasp to my shorts.
   “Ben! What are you doing?” Miss McNeil hissed.
   I’d already managed to shove my shorts down to my knees and my hard cock was now waving in the air, swollen and throbbing and turning almost purple with engorged blood. “Aren’t we…?” I pleaded with my eyes.
   Her gaze was locked onto my waving dick, and I saw her jaw quivering.“Ben. It was a mistake. We shouldn’t have.”
   “Why not?”
   “Because! You’re just a kid.” She kept staring hungrily at my cock and her tongue snaked out to lick across her upper lip.
   “You’re not looking at my cock like it belongs to a little kid.”
   “Oh…” Miss McNeil sighed. “That certainly isn’t a little kid’s penis…” She blinked rapidly and then tore her gaze away from it. “But that doesn’t make it right. I could go to jail for what I did.”
   “Why? I’m not going to tell anybody.”
   “It’s not right, Ben.” Her words said one thing but the expression on her face belied her feelings.
   “But don’t you want to? I certainly want you to.”
   “Oh, Ben…”
   “Please?” My hormones were surging through my body and I’d been dreaming about this all week. There was nothing in the world I wanted more.
   “Oh, God help me,” Miss McNeil prayed as her face scrunched up. But then she quickly got to her knees, took my shaft in hand, and then swallowed up the first few inches into her mouth.
   “Unnghh…” I groaned as I bucked my hips towards her. The feelings were exquisite, the warmth of her mouth Heaven on Earth to my sensitive glans. I felt the pressure in my balls once again as the pleasure threatened to overwhelm me as quickly as it had last time. But today, I was better prepared for the sensations.
   Today, I didn’t start cumming inside of five seconds.
   Today, I merely held Miss McNeil’s head in my hands, and I lay back to enjoy it as she began to bob her head up and down in my lap.
   “Mmm… I LOVE doing this…” she moaned around my cock with her eyes closed. Miss McNeil seemed to be savoring my dick as if it were the most wonderful food she had ever tasted, and I felt her tongue rubbing the underside of my shaft while she slowly moved her head up and down, swallowing my meat until my head nudged against her throat before she pulled back until just the crown was still inside her lips.
   It wasn’t that the last time I’d spurted into her mouth didn’t count or anything. But this, THIS was a real blowjob, like in the porn videos.
   My mind flicked back to memory of those videos, vividly imprinted on my mind from the few times I’d been alone in the house long enough to find them on the family computer or from my dad’s “borrowed” videotapes I’d smuggled to Kenny’s, where he had his own TV/VCR in his bedroom. I remembered the rapturous expressions on the men as they got sucked off. And subconsciously, I found myself trying to emulate them as I squinted my eyes shut, groaned gutturally, and stroked Miss McNeil’s hair.
   “So good, baby,” I groaned. “Suck me. Suck me.”
   She moaned in answer and sucked me harder. And this time, even though it had only been two minutes, nothing was going to stop my explosion.
   “Oh Miss McNeil,” I gasped. “I’m gonna cum! I’m gonna cum in your mouth!”
   “Oh, gimme! Gimme your cum!” she moaned ecstatically when I said that and just started sucking me harder. And when I blew, she was ready for it.
   Her right hand squeezed tightly around my shaft and started jacking me upwards, and I felt the air leave my lungs as I literally stopped breathing to cum. My abs contracted, my hips shuddered, and several gobs of jizz flew out of me to splatter inside Miss McNeil’s mouth. She groaned happily and began swallowing me down, and after the first few shots I started gasping for oxygen again while I let her squeeze the rest out of me.
   When we were done, I was panting, she was panting, and we both had goofy grins on our faces. But then I realized that I hadn’t even gotten to see her tits this time, although she’d gotten to see my cock fully naked. That wasn’t fair.
   I leaned forward and put my hands to her shoulders, fully ready to start stripping her clothes off. I didn’t know if Miss McNeil wanted me to strip her clothes off, but I wanted to see her naked and I was going to start ripping things off her if I needed to.
   Miss McNeil misread my intention as I leaned my head towards hers and she sighed happily as my face came within reach. She tilted her face and puckered her lips, and I figured hey, a kiss sounded pretty good, too.
   So I covered her mouth with my own, pressing firmly, and this time her tongue popped out and tickled my lips until I opened them for her as our tongues intertwined and we french kissed.
   I loved kissing. It was the only thing I’d really gotten to do with other girls before Miss McNeil, and I was told I was pretty good at it. But I also wanted to see Miss McNeil’s tits. So while half of me focused on swapping spit with the beautiful adult woman, my hands kept pushing at her robe so that the bulky material fell off hershoulders and began to slide down her torso. And when I put my hands to her shoulders again, I realized that she wasn’t wearing a shirt or bra.
   With a spike of excitement, I popped my eyes open for a look and sure enough, the robe had puddled to the floor and from Miss McNeil’s kneeling position, I could see that she was completely naked save for her panties. Those big tits I had seared into my brain were gloriously naked for my viewing pleasure.
   And this time, I wasn’t going to stop at just touching them.
   With a burst of energy, I sprung off the toilet and practically tackled Miss McNeil, who shrieked and twisted as she began falling to the side. Her body was falling away from me, so I grabbed her sides and then pinned her against me long enough to grab the house robe and spread it out just far enough to make a makeshift blanket, and then I lowered Miss McNeil’s naked back onto it.
   “Ben? What are you—?” she began before I cut her off with another kiss. Miss McNeil just moaned and then clutched me to her before I pulled my lips away from hers, moved down a foot, and then immediately latched onto her right nipple with my mouth.
   “Ohhh…” Miss McNeil moaned as I began vigorously suckling at her teat, and her hands came up to clutch my head to her breast. “Ben… Ben…” she whimpered while I suckled.
   Meanwhile, my hand went to her other breast to cup and palm and play with the heavy orb to my heart’s content. Miss McNeil shifted as she brought one of her own hands down and I felt the vibration as she began to rub herself quite vigorously somewhere lower down her body.
   Curious, I looked over just long enough to see that she’d slipped her hand beneath her panties and she was actually masturbating herself while I sucked on her boob. And energized by the sight, I switched tits and continued sucking away while happily soaking in every pleasurable moment I could. Something this incredible might never happen to me again.
   After a few minutes, Miss McNeil’s breathing started to get shorter and shorter, and I felt her entire torso shuddering. Before I realized it, she clutched my head to her chest tightly, her body went rigid, and then she let out a strangled cry of orgasm.
   Her hand was working overtime in her crotch and the vibrations from her arm were jarring me, but eventually her cry died out and she slowly released me. She was panting softly, and for the first time in the last ten minutes, my brain slowed down long enough to think clearly.
   Here I was, in the house of a beautiful adult woman twelve years older than me. You want to talk out of my league? I was lying on top of a woman so far out of my league that before that fateful afternoon when she’d given me my first blowjob, I’d never even bothered to dream about having sex with her. Sure, I appreciated her body and I stole every glimpse of her tits I could, but I did that for every pretty female who walked across my path, including my own sisters.
   But it had never before entered my head that she would do anything remotely sexual with me. I thought about having sex with Megan and Cassidy and my other classmates. I thought about girls like Adrienne, who were gorgeous and showed off their tits and seemed slutty enough that they might consider banging me just for the hell of it. But not Miss McNeil. Even putting aside the age difference, she was just TOO beautiful for someone like me. Her face was a work of art. Her green eyes were captivating. She might have been able to pass for a teenager with the right outfit and hairstyle, but her body had the curves of a full-grown woman, and a VERY nice full-grown woman at that.
   What was I? Just a barely-16-year-old virgin dork. Even in my fantasies, the idea of making love to Miss McNeil just seemed TOO far-fetched.
   Until now.
   Miss McNeil’s eyes were still closed as she panted while lying flat on her back in the afterglow of orgasm. Her firm breasts sagged just a bit under their heavy weight, the still-erect nipples slightly tilted to the sides. Her stomach was taut, neither muscled nor pudgy. And the panties were your basic white cotton, with pastel little flowers sprinkled all over them.
   Her legs were gorgeous, flexing beautifully as she stretched and pointed her toes. I ran my hand lovingly along the creamy flesh and then returned my gaze up to her face, where Miss McNeil had a look of fulfilled contentment.
   I’d never seen a more beautiful sight in my life.
   I was almost hesitant to kiss her, lest I disturb the perfection I saw before me. And yet I couldn’t resist bending over and softly touching my lips to hers. Miss McNeil moaned happily as my tongue once again entered her mouth, and we lay like that just kissing softly for a few minutes while I began to run my hands over her warm body again.
   I of course ran my hands over her tits again. I teased the nipples with my palms and squeezed her globes with glee. But I also rubbed her arms, massaging her biceps reflexively which made Miss McNeil moan more into my mouth. I ran my hands down her belly and legs, and then eventually, I hooked my fingers into the waistband of her panties.
   Still with her eyes closed, Miss McNeil moaned again and then I felt the tension in her legs as she began to lift her hips up. I reacted instinctively, kissing my way down her chin and to her chest as I relocated both of my hands to grab hold of my beautiful neighbor’s panties. And then while she planted her feet and arched her butt off the floor, I slid the cotton down her legs and then picked my head up to pull them off the rest of the way, leaving this goddess fully nude before me.
   She had a dark tuft of hair above her pussy. It wasn’t neatly trimmed down, but it wasn’t unruly either. I could see the obvious wetness in her crotch reflecting the bathroom lights; and further below, the puffy pink of her vagina was just barely peeking out from her closed labia.
   I had an academic understanding of what I was looking at, both from health class and photos and the one special girl who’d let me see hers before. But the sight of the first pussy I might actually get INTO wasn’t as shocking or monumental as when I’d first seen Miss McNeil’s breasts. Somehow, while I knew I wanted to see her pussy, I’d never thought a woman’s crotch was as attractive as a nice pair of tits.
   And so I didn’t hesitate very long before tugging off my T-shirt and then kicking my shorts and socks off. Now as fully naked as she was, I moved my warm body so that I was directly atop Miss McNeil, my naked chest resting lightly on top of her breasts while I supported most of my weight on my elbows. My erection was sandwiched between our two bellies, and I felt the tickle against my thighs as our pubic hairs mingled together. And as I began to kiss her again, Miss McNeil hummed happily against my mouth and I felt her legs parting to let my lower half slide between them.
   Ever so delicately, I felt the shaft of my banana-bent cock slide into the groove of her pussy lips. I pulled back just a bit further, and with a gentle nudge, my cockhead lowered down and moved into position. This was it. On the cold bathroom tile floor in Miss McNeil’s house, I was going to lose my virginity.
   “Oh, Colin…” Miss McNeil moaned with infinite joy, and at the sound of her dead husband’s name, she suddenly went rigid.
   I went rigid, too. Just like‘desire-to-fuck-hot-girl’ was genetically imprinted on all male humans, ‘annoyance-at-hearing-hot-girl-moan-someone-else’s-name’ was similarly hardwired into my brain.
   Miss McNeil’s eyes flew open and then she took one look at me before her face went ashen and she started crying. In a heartbeat, she went from my sensually alluring goddess right back into Miss McNeil, sad widow neighbor who didn’t have a man around to fix up the little things in her house.
   I lost my erection almost immediately. Crying girls just don’t do it for me.
   “I’m so sorry, so sorry, Miss McNeil,” I soothed while scooting off her. It was instinctive. I would push a girl just a little too far and then apologize while backpedaling. I would kiss her and then apologize for it when she complained she wasn’t ready. I would grab a boob and then apologize for it when she slapped my hand. Now I was apologizing for taking Miss McNeil’s panties off and then getting ready to mount her.
   Miss McNeil’s hands went up to cover her nakedness and I quickly grabbed the ends of the robe she was lying on, pulling it up to loosely cover her and then tying the belt myself. Then, while she rolled away from me and curled into a fetal position, I hunted around and sat up to start hunching myself into myshorts. Then I went searching for my shirt, then my socks, and shoes.
   By the time I was fully dressed, Miss McNeil had composed herself and she wasn’t crying anymore. She was sitting up and leaning against the wall, although she still wasn’t looking at me.
   “Miss McNeil?” I ventured in a careful voice. I’d thought about just bolting, but it didn’t seem right.
   She took a deep breath and then exhaled for a good five seconds. And when she took the next deep breath, she turned to look at me through wet eyes.“I’m sorry, Ben. I never should have let things get so far.”
   “No, no. It’s my fault. I’m just a walking hormone.” It was an excuse I’d repeated many a time with nearly all of my teen dates. If I didn’t show remorse, they’d never go out with me again.
   “You can’t help it. I’m the adult here. I could go to jail for what I did.”
   “You said that before. But I promise you, I’d never tell ANYONE.”
   “Just because you don’t tell doesn’t mean we can’t get caught.” She closed her eyes and sighed again. “We can’t do this ever again, Ben.”
   I sighed and looked down. I’d known it couldn’t last forever. I’d hoped it would last beyond just two times, but that was that.
   I didn’t say anything, and neither did she for a long while. I just went over her blowjob in my head, and pictured her fingering herself to orgasm while I sucked on her tits. And with those happy thoughts in my mind, I began to smile wistfully.
   Miss McNeil seemed to realize that I wasn’t about to start yelling or complaining about the situation. After sighing with relief, she managed a hopeful expression on her pretty face.
   “Well,” I began as I looked around and then saw the broken towel bar, still with only one bracket holding it up. “Can I still fix your towel bar?”
   Miss McNeil started laughing.“Sure, Ben. But I’m…” she pointed back towards her bedroom. “I’m going to go change into something a little… uh… less naked.”MAY 2000, SOPHOMORE YEAR
   When I breathed, I could still smell the sweet, musky odor of her sweat. When I closed my eyes, I could still see the beatific expression on her face. And when I quieted my mind, I could hear the soft moan of her orgasm.
   I yearned to experience all those sensations again. But it was not to be. For two weeks, I hadn’t seen Miss McNeil. For two weeks, I tried unsuccessfully to put our two sexual interludes out of my mind.
   “Ben, you got a minute?”
   I closed my locker and turned to see Megan Kwan waiting for me, her hand idly tapping the telescoping handle on the roller-schoolbag she used instead of a backpack. School had just ended, and there was nothing left for me but to drive home.“Sure, what’s up?”
   “Can we talk…?” Megan glanced around, noticing the hustle and bustle of the crowd. “Uh, somewhere a little more private?”
   I shrugged,“Sure.”
   Megan simply turned and started walking away. I followed her, and with my mind in its current sexually-heightened state, I found myself staring at Megan’s ass. As she pulled her roller-bag along, her hips were automatically swaying and twisting to maintain balance while dragging the pack with one hand. Beneath the ordinary T-shirt, she was wearing these tight jeans that hugged her body, and my mouth began to water as I imagined how her creamy globes would look without the heavy denim in the way.
   It wasn’t the first time I’d checked Megan out. I’d surreptitiously checked out pretty much every girl in school, even the ugly ones. And I’d more openly gaped at the gorgeous girls, who were used to the attention. But this time I felt myself lingering a bit longer than usual. Megan was still clearly a girl, in comparison to Miss McNeil who was all woman, but she was a growing girl. The extra couple of inches she’d grown had all been in her legs, and since she was rather skinny, her legs looked pretty long despite her 5’4” height. Her hips were starting to swell to the sides and for some reason, I found the gentle curve from her hips to her tiny waist to be a turn-on.
   I couldn’t see her tits from behind, but memory reminded me that she’d been almost completely flat-chested when we dated back in November. But in the past few months, Megan had developed some healthy bumps that required the use of a bra. And as she grew, her round China doll face had begun to elongate into the pretty face of a young woman.
   All of this analysis I did automatically. I was 16. I thought about sex and girls constantly. So it was easy to ogle Megan without being obvious about it and still notice that Megan had led me to the back of the school, to the bleachers by the football field. There was one other couple there, making out in the shade beneath the bleachers towards one end. Megan took me to the other end but we actually ascended a few rows rather than tuck ourselves away beneath the gleaming aluminum.
   “So what’s up?” I asked casually once we’d sat down. I talked with Megan every day; there was no need to be nervous.
   But she was nervous. Megan wouldn’t look me in the eye and she bit her lip before mumbling something so quietly that I couldn’t make out her words.
   “Excuse me?” I leaned in. “I didn’t catch that.”
   Megan glared right into my eyes as if it were my fault I couldn’t hear her. And then in a louder voice she asked, “Do you still like me?”
   I arched an eyebrow and answered like any other 16-year-old might answer.“Huh?”
   “Do you still like me?”
   “Of course I do.”
   Megan’s tone dropped, emphasizing the seriousness of her question. “I mean, like-me-like-me.”
   My eyes popped open. She was asking if I were still interested in her as a potential girlfriend.“Uh, well…” I stalled, and Megan’s face fell as I didn’t immediately give her the answer she’d been looking for.
   I’d first dated Megan because she was a willing female, period. Back then, if I had to come up with a top list of girls I wanted to date, she was maybe 26. But since 1 through 25 wouldn’t go out with me, I’d been content to get what I could from Megan.
   But since then, we’d gotten to be friends and I found I really liked her. She still wasn’t in my top 10 or anything. Those slots were reserved for the girls who put out or had big tits. But recently I’d found that when I tried to mentally assemble the list, I’d simply been leaving Megan out of it entirely. She defied those categories, since when I saw Megan, I saw my friend; I didn’t see a sex object. Megan was almost like my sister Brandi, a cute girl who attended my school but meant more to me than any position on a list of girls I secretly wanted to have sex with. So I simply hadn’t thought about the possibility of dating Megan again. I’d just assumed we’d be friends forever.
   Wincing at the awkward situation, I shrugged and looked away before answering.“I… I haven’t really thought about it much, Megan. I mean, I did… like-you-like-you. But you said you weren’t ready and you know I’d never push you to do anything you weren’t ready for.”
   “I know. Thank you for that,” Megan managed a weak smile and leaned towards me. “But what if… what if I were ready now?”
   My mind was racing. I hadn’t had a date in forever. The same thing had happened to me last year. At the beginning of the school year, everyone wanted to hook up with everyone else and the dates had come with some frequency. But some people settled into boyfriend/girlfriend relationships and others just got bored of the whole thing. And by the end of Spring, the only girls I was kissing were my mom and sisters on the cheek.
   This year, since my two-week thing with Megan, there had only been one three-week thing in February with Stephanie Vo before she went to go flirt with an upperclassman on the tennis team. So the idea of getting some action, even just first base with a friend, sounded like a great idea.
   “Uh, you sure?” I asked, intrigued.
   “Yeah,” Megan gave me a stronger smile.
   I knew what I was supposed to do.“So Megan, you doing anything Friday night?”
   Now she was beaming, her eyes lit up like fireworks.“No, why? You have something in mind?”
   “Have you seen Gladiator yet?” I asked, excited about the upcoming swords and manly-men epic.
   “Uh, no,” Megan frowned. Perhaps she’d been thinking of something more romantic. But there was no WAY I’d go to see Center Stage or any other ballet movie. I was friendly with girls, but I wasn’t gay.
   “Well, I’ve got a car now. Can I take you to dinner and a movie?”
   That was really all Megan wanted, so she smiled and shyly replied,“Sure.”
   When Megan blushed and glanced down, I was struck by how pretty she was growing up to be. Gone was the little flat-chested, underdeveloped girl. In her place was a young woman of 15 rapidly on her way to becoming an adult. And when her dark eyes flicked to me with a hunger no little girl ever displayed, I found myself moving on instinct again.
   My hand reached out to her cheek and Megan gasped when she felt the gentle touch of my fingers. And then I was leaning across the bleacher bench, and automatically my eyes began to close as I tilted my head and brought my face up to hers.
   Megan stopped breathing for a moment and her eyes flew open wide when she realized I was about to kiss her. She neither shied away nor leaned to meet me, but when my lips touched hers she puckered up, and then two seconds later I heard her moan and begin to flow into my kiss.
   It wasn’t electric, but it was sweet. I peeked for a second to see that Megan had closed her eyes, and then I half-smiled into the kiss as I pressed a little more firmly, calling upon all my knowledge for how to properly kiss a girl.
   Kissing felt good. I could have stayed there and kissed her forever. But I didn’t want to push my luck and so I broke away, leaving Megan gasping with her eyes still closed. Her head followed me for a few inches before she rocked back to regain her balance. I touched her cheek one more time before getting up and turning to head down the stairs to where we’d left our schoolbags.
   “I’ll pick you up at six,” I said brightly.
   Megan just glowed and smiled.* * *
   For the next couple of days, Megan and I got positively giggly around each other. We were flirting constantly, and we cheated twice, sneaking kisses even before our first date (well second-first date).
   Cassidy caught us once and complained,“Knock it off, you two. Can’t it wait until Friday’s date?”
   I just shrugged and asked,“Why? I want to. She wants to, right?”
   Megan giggled and nodded her head. So I kissed her again.
   Cassidy growled and then Megan declared,“You had your chance, Cass.”* * *
   It was just after dinner on Thursday and I’d beaten everyone to the TV. The video game console was powered on and I was button-mashing my way to glory while little Eden and Emma leaned against my sides and watched the on-screen violence with wide eyes.
   “You know, the twins probably shouldn’t be seeing that,” Brandi snarked and folded her arms over her chest, glaring at me with all her big sister disdain.
   “YOU try getting them to leave.” I shrugged and kept mashing. “I told them to go to their room and play.”
   “I wanna stay with Ben!” Eden complained.
   “Yeah!” Emma chimed in.
   “You COULD play a less violent game, Ben,” Brandi tried to reason.
   I shrugged again.“Girls gotta learn sometime. Besides,” I reached out with my off-hand and tousled my baby sister’s hair. “You guys are big girls now, right?”
   “Right!” both Eden and Emma chirped. But then a second later, I took a big swipe with my battle axe and both twins gasped before covering their eyes with their hands.
   “See!” Brandi said in her best I-told-you-so big-sister tone.
   I paused the game and was just about to say something stupid when Mom’s voice cut in. “Ben?”
   We all turned and I answered,“Yeah, Mom?”
   “Miss McNeil called. She’s got a pipe leaking in her bathroom all over her floor. Can you take a look first? She shouldn’t have to call a plumber unless absolutely necessary.”
   I sighed. After dinner, I usually didn’t want to move anywhere that didn’t involve my butt on the couch. “Can’t it wait until tomorrow?”
   “It’s a leaking PIPE, Ben,” Mom scolded. “Water doesn’t wait for anything.”
   “Fine, fine.” I tensed my jaw and then turned off the game. The twins hurried to their room to find comfort in their toys while Brandi picked up the remote and immediately took my seat when I got up.
   It wasn’t that I was against fixing Miss McNeil’s pipes or helping out with handiwork around her house. But I was nervous. I hadn’t seen Miss McNeil since “that day” and I wasn’t sure how to act around her. But obediently, I went to the garage to get the tool box and then started off for our neighbor’s house.
   “Hi, Ben.” Miss McNeil looked at me intently when she opened the door. She then stood there for a long minute, just running her eyes up and down me while she seemed to vibrate inside. Her skin was flushed, and I saw the touch of sweat on her forehead. And her feet were bare beneath the thick house robe that she seemingly always wore recently.
   Still nervous, I hefted the tool box in my left hand and said,“Hi Miss McNeil. Mom said you had a leaking pipe?”
   “Yes, Ben. Come on in.” She stepped aside as I walked in.
   “So where’s the leak?”
   “In my bedroom,” she said softly from behind me. There was a husk in her voice.
   I assumed she meant the Master Bathroom adjacent to her bedroom, so I started down the hall and then went into her bedroom to get to the Master Bath. I actually didn’t see the object at first. My attention was already turning towards the sink and vanity area. But I did catch the flesh-colored object out of the corner of my eye and abruptly, I stopped in my tracks.
   It was a dildo. I’d seen a few in the porn videos, but never a real one with my own eyes. The flesh-toned object looked to be an ordinary size, maybe even smaller than my dick, but it was certainly realistic. It had a mushroom head and veiny bumps, and even a small depression where the piss-hole would be. And thedildo was glistening wet.
   Miss McNeil was suddenly behind me, husking deeply,“It just isn’t the same as the real thing.”
   I spun in surprise and before I realized it, Miss McNeil had pushed against both of my shoulders and I flopped onto my back across the bed. I landed just a foot away from the dildo and in a panic, I scrambled away from it.
   But then Miss McNeil’s hands went to the belt of her robe, tugging it loose. And then all of my attention was on the beautiful 28-year-old widow as her robe puddled to the floor, leaving her body fully naked before me.
   “Ohmigod, ohmigod, ohmigod,” I started babbling while breathing extremely rapidly. The image of Miss McNeil’s body was seared into memory, but up close and personal it was even more wonderful than I’d remembered. Her full breasts were proud, firm globes of heaven protruding off her chest. Her narrow waist and full hips were all woman, and I could see the glistening moisture of arousal matting her now neatly-trimmed pubic hair just above her engorged pussy lips, spread wide with arousal and recent abuse.
   “Shh, Ben. Relax or you’re going to hyperventilate,” the pretty brunette soothed. But as she knelt at the foot of the bed and moved between my legs, relaxing was the last thing on my mind. She opened my fly and then carefully extracted my dick, and I managed to slow down to a heavy pant as she took my member in her hands.
   She gasped when her cool fingers circled my throbbing cock.“Definitely not the same as the real thing,” she husked. “It’s so hot. It’s so hard. And it’s bigger than I remember.”
   Like a dumb kid, I started to question the situation, and gasping I asked,“What are we—? I thought you said—?”
   “I can’t help it,” Miss McNeil turned those gorgeous green eyes up to me. “I need a cock.”
   “What about the pipe?”
   “There’s no leak, Ben. The only thing that needs plugging is me.”
   With that, Miss McNeil began to strip off my clothing, tugging my shorts and boxers to my ankles before ripping my shirt over my head. Faster than I would have thought possible, I was as naked as she was, and my hips were straining off the bed while this beautiful woman lovingly stroked my cock.
   Then, Miss McNeil reached out and grabbed the dildo. Expertly turning it in her hands, I watched as she slid the thick phallus into her pussy while she knelt before me, and she moaned before snapping her eyes open.“It’s just not the same, Ben. Don’t you see? It’s not hot. It’s not throbbing. It’s just not real. I haven’t been fucked in over three years, Ben. I just can’t take it anymore.”
   She was stroking my dick with her left hand now while she wriggled the dildo inside of her with her right. Her eyelids fluttered and she licked her lips while staring at my erection, now straining with a mind of its own towards the beautiful woman.“God help me. I can’t stop.” She sighed. “I’m going to hell.”
   And with that, Miss McNeil bent over and inhaled my prick into her mouth.
   “Ohhh…” I groaned and simply fell back across the bed, the sensations Miss McNeil’s mouth produced simply too much for me to handle. She jacked me slowly with her left hand and suckled the head. Her tongue flicked out across the tip, and she moaned erotically the entire time.
   Today, I merely held Miss McNeil’s head in my hands, and I lay back to enjoy it as she began to bob her head up and down in my lap.
   “Oh, Miss McNeil, Miss McNeil,” I groaned. “I love this. I love you. Oh, don’t ever stop!”
   She was good. I didn’t have anything to compare against, but I just KNEW that Miss McNeil wasn’t an ordinary cocksucker. She was just as enthusiastic as a porn star, who would be faking it for the camera. Miss McNeil wasn’t faking anything. She justloved to give head.
   And inside three minutes, that expertise and enthusiasm had me blowing my load into her mouth. I groaned and held her head down while I nutted down my beautiful neighbor’s throat, and Miss McNeil moaned the entire time.
   Then, after she finished swallowing every drop of jism I gave her, I felt Miss McNeil’s body tense up beneath my hands and she went silent for a second. Picking my head up to see what was wrong, I then saw the vibrations going through her body while her right hand furiously shook as she drove the dildo in and out of her pussy, and still with my half-hard cock in her mouth, Miss McNeil began to scream.
   Tears began to roll down her cheeks and I felt the sonic vibrations along my shaft as the lovely brunette woman screamed around my dick. And just as her cries died out, she returned to sucking my meat while her body shuddered and jerked, as if sucking me prolonged her pleasure.
   And then at last, she was done.
   But I wasn’t.
   16-year-old hormones + beautiful naked woman with great tits + her hot, sucking mouth on my cock = very fast recovery.
   Miss McNeil was still nursing my dick as she came down from her orgasm when she realized I was just as hard as I’d been before ejaculation. “Are you already hard?” she popped off and asked in amazement.
   “For you, always,” I said sincerely.
   Miss McNeil’s cheeks puffed up as she grinned broadly at me. And without further preamble, she crawled up onto the bed and then planted a fierce kiss on my lips.
   Kissing I knew. Kissing I was used to. I circled my arms around her body and reveled in the chance to stroke her naked back. I’d never felt the embrace of a naked girl before, and the feeling of a grown woman crushing her tits to my chest while spearing her tongue into my mouth had me thrilled beyond comprehension.
   Miss McNeil pulled away just long enough to gasp,“You’re such a good kisser for a kid.”
   “Thank you,” I answered sincerely.
   She kissed me again before moving to straddle my hips. I felt the tickle of her trimmed bush against my pelvis and then she wriggled her hips around until my hard cock was pressed flat between our bodies. Almost experimentally, the beautiful brunette glided her wet pussy lips along my shaft. And then, her green eyes glowed as she looked down at me.“Are you ready for me, Ben?”
   For a second I panicked. Would I pop off in three seconds? What should I do? I’d never done this before! I’d read about techniques and about thrusting and clit manipulation, but right now, in the face of my first ever experience, I was frightened out of my wits. “I’m a virgin,” I moaned.
   Miss McNeil smiled and bent to kiss my nose.“I know.”
   And with that, she took my cock in hand, elevated herself up, and then began to sink her pussy down around my shaft.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” she crooned as my meat began to fill her up. The dildo had loosened her up, but like I said, I was a bit longer and a bit thicker, so it took a few seconds before she was able to hit rock bottom.
   And when I felt her crotch pressed all the way down to mine, I finally started breathing again. It was done. I was a virgin no longer.“Oh, Miss McNeil…” I sighed.
   She stayed there for a long while, her head thrown back with her eyes closed. Every so often, she would rotate her hips or wiggle a bit just to feel every little sensation. It was her first cock in over three years.
   I was focused in on the sensations myself. It was my first pussy… period.
   In retrospect, I was really lucky that she didn’t move for a few minutes. It gave me time to adjust, to get used to the feelings of being inside the warmest, wettest, most wonderful pussy imaginable. I was on such a mental high after losing my virginity and finding myself balls deep inside Miss McNeil of all people, that if she’d begun riding me, I would have blown my wad almost immediately.
   But as it was, by the time she began to move, I’d gotten over my initial shock and I could just lay back and enjoy it without exploding prematurely.
   “What do I do?” I asked softly.
   “Nothing, for now. Just enjoy it, okay Ben?” She sighed as her hips began to move up and down, and I intently watched the elaborate balancing act of her shoulders bobbing back and forth while she raised and lowered herself along my shaft.
   “Just let me use your cock,” Miss McNeil moaned.
   “Whenever you want,” I said wholeheartedly.
   Miss McNeil smiled, and then she did use me. I was a living dildo attached to a 16-year-old useless lump of flesh that just took up space on top of her bed. But dildoes don’t have hands. And after riding me for a few minutes and roughly impaling herself on my shaft, Miss McNeil grabbed my hands and pulled them to her tits.
   I’d just been watching the heavy orbs jiggle as she went up and down, the erect nipples wobbling in tiny circles with her rhythmic thrusting. But now as she clasped my hands over her round breasts, I added my instinctive pinching and caressing to the sensations pouring through this woman’s body.
   “Oh, Ben! Pinch them. Squeeze my nipples!” Miss McNeil moaned.
   I squeezed.
   “Harder!” She commanded.
   Tentatively, I squeezed a little more.
   “HARDER!”
   Reflexively, I clamped down.
   “OHHH!!!” she cried, and her humping started moving faster.
   Miss McNeil was approaching climax. I’d started to figure out the telltale signs of her orgasm, and the harder she rode me the harder I started molesting her boobs. And the further we went, the more sensations were being transmitted to my prick, and the more I began thrusting my hips off the mattress to meet her body.
   I also started to overload with brain choices. Do I watch my thick pecker disappearing and reappearing through her pussy lips? Do I watch the jiggle of her boobs in my hands? Or do I watch the blissful expression on her face? I tried to watch all three and just got cross-eyed in the process.
   “Fuck, fuck, fuck!” Miss McNeil began chanting. “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!”
   I did the best I could, driving my cock into her body from below with every ab muscle I had.
   “Fuck me! Oh, God! Oh, God! I’m cumming! I’m cumming!”
   And I was cumming, too. The instant I felt the tight clamp of pussy muscles around my shaft, I felt that familiar relief from pressure as my balls evacuated their heavy load of semen and I groaned loudly as I began to spurt into Miss McNeil’s clenching pussy.
   “YES!!!” Miss McNeil crowed as her climax overtook her. Her hands clamped over the backs of my hands, pressing my palms even tighter to her tits while I reflexively squeezed. And she screamed in agony and ecstasy while she felt the ultimate pleasure course through her body.
   I was enjoying the ultimate pleasure as well. My breath gave out before my cock did, and with my mouth gaping open, I gasped like a dying fish while my pecker fired shot after shot of boiling hot jism into my neighbor’s wet box.
   And then it was over.
   Like a graceful deer shot in mid-stride, Miss McNeil slowly toppled over me and collapsed onto my chest. Instinctively, my hands went up to wrap around her, and I cuddled her tightly to me while we both panted for air.
   “Thank you, Ben,” she managed to whisper. “I sooo needed that.”
   “Thank YOU, Miss McNeil. That was incredible.”
   She sighed and nuzzled her nose against my cheek.“Maybe you should start calling me Keira.”
   I smirked and rubbed my cheek against hers.“I don’t know if I can do that. Besides, wouldn’t people get suspicious if I started calling you by your first name?”
   “Just between us,” she said huskily right into my ear. “Just when we’re in private.”
   “Okay,” I sighed happily and tilted my cheek tighter against hers. “It’s just, I would never want anything bad to happen to you. You’re amazing… Keira. I loved what we did. I love you.”
   I was expecting her to swoon with delight. After all, didn’t all girls want men to say the magic L-word? Instead, Keira sighed. “Don’t say that, Ben. You don’t even know what love is.”
   “Do too,” I said defensively, my eyebrows pinching together.
   She chuckled.“It’s puppy love. And that’s your orgasm talking. I learned a long time ago: never believe a man when he’s drunk or having sex…” Keira laughed again. “… Or running for public office.”
   I laughed and then went quiet. My cock was starting to soften and I felt the wetness leaking out of her onto my crotch. I sighed and stroked Keira’s back. And then in a trembling voice, I asked, “Was this? Was this just a one-time thing?”
   She took a deep breath and turned her head away from me, resting her head against my shoulder.“I should say yes. But I can’t. God help me I can’t. I want to do this again, Ben. Do you?”
   “Of course!” I answered quickly.
   She chuckled at my eagerness. And then she pushed herself upright and my eyes immediately dropped to her naked tits now just inches away from my face and hanging beautifully.
   “Ahem,” Keira stated to get my attention. And then in a serious voice, she said, “My period should start Sunday, so we’re probably okay. But next time will have to wait until I can get on the pill. I’m not married and you’re too young to be a daddy.”
   “Okay,” I nodded. “But how long will that be?”
   “I’m not sure yet. But I’ll call you.”
   “How is this going to work? My mom is gonna get suspicious if I’m over here too often.”
   My beautiful neighbor sighed before slipping off me and then propping herself up on her side with one hand.“It won’t be that often Ben. I can’t stop, but I can control myself. We can’t do this more than once a week, okay?”
   “Okay,” I replied quickly. I knew enough to take whatever I could get whenever I could get it. Full intercourse with a gorgeous babe once a week sounded like Heaven on Earth. And as I looked over her naked body and imagined what we could do the next time, I felt a stirring in my loins as my dick began to harden for a third time.
   Licking my lips, I got a hopeful expression on my face as I asked softly,“Keira?”
   “Yes, Ben?”
   I reached out and lightly ran my fingers along the bare skin of her hip.“Can we do it again right now?”
   Keira McNeil simply rolled over onto her back and spread her legs.“Come fuck me, young stud.”
   Chapter 2: Teenage ExplorationsMAY 2000, SOPHOMORE YEAR
   “See? He’s got that look again!”
   I rolled my eyes at Kenny Doyle and took another bite of my Salisbury steak. I wasn’t sure why they called it a steak. It pretty much looked like a cross between meatloaf and a hamburger patty. But for now, I concentrated furiously on my food and made sure I didn’t drift away to la la land again.
   It was so easy to drift. Just last night, I’d cum three times with a beautiful woman. I’d had sex. I wasn’t a virgin anymore. And the memories of what activities had taken place were simply so wonderful that I couldn’t help but glow and smile beatifically.
   The first time Keira had given me a blowjob, I walked around school with a calm serenity. I’d no longer had that manic urge to get off with a beautiful girl. Now that I’d actually had sex, I not only found that serenity, but also a cool confidence.
   I was a trueman. I was a functioning, productive male of the species. I’d had sex with a beautiful woman, and no one could take that away from me. No longer was I just another teenage virgin spending half of his day trying to figure out how to lose said virginity. No longer was I worried about orgasmic release. I knew it would come again. So absent of that concern, I had plenty of time to focus on other things. My world was simply… clearer.
   I held my head high as I cruised down the school’s hallways. I wasn’t just a leaf on the wind anymore. I was the wind itself, moving however and wherever I wanted.
   Kenny had picked up my new attitude immediately. He said I looked different, but when he pried me about the sex question I just ignored him. There was nothing in the world that could get me to do or say anything that might lead to me no longer having sex with Keira.
   So at lunch, as usual, he called in reinforcements. Once again, I had half the table staring at me to see for themselves if I was really different.
   I guess I was.
   I tired of staring at my food within two seconds. Instead, I simply picked my head up and focused in on each of my observers, one at a time. Individually, I dared them to say something. What could they do?
   Abigail and Allison Sanders immediately backed down when I glared at them. Daniel Chen got a smirk on his face and nodded knowingly. Cassidy O’Leary canted her head and started to re-evaluate me. And then there was Megan Kwan, sitting right beside me. She was looking prettier and prettier, and after the fun I’d had with Keira last night, I started to imagine what it would be like doing the same to Megan tonight.
   Megan was the first to speak.“You’re right, he IS different.”
   “Yeah,” Cassidy put in. “He’s… somehow stronger. And a little scary.”
   “Scary!” Abigail Sanders agreed, followed in stereo by Allison’s agreement, “Scary!”
   I sighed.“Will you stop talking as if I’m not here. And I’m not scary. I’m just the same old Ben.”
   “You seem more confident, Ben,” Daniel pointed out.
   “I’m telling you, Ben’s having sex with someone,” Kenny stated emphatically. “He’s got that look.”
   Then almost immediately, everyone at the table turned and lasered their gaze on Megan.
   The young girl suddenly saw the dozens of eyeballs locked onto her and she paled visibly.“No! No,” she protested.
   “No, we’re not having sex!” I said loudly, drawing attention back to me.
   “If not her, then who?” Cassidy glared accusingly at me.
   “Will you guys cool it? Isn’t it enough that I’m just feeling good about having a date tonight?” I reached to take Megan’s hand on top of the table and squeezed it. “Look, everyone here knows I’m taking Megan out tonight.”
   I turned to look at her and without thinking, I moved my hand up to sweep her dark bangs out of her eyes and behind her ear.“A very pretty girl wants to spend a night out with me, and I couldn’t be happier,” I said sincerely.
   Megan beamed happily and she squeezed my hand.
   Then I whirled and glared at everyone else.“Now I’ll thank you to butt out!”* * *
   The date was perfect.
   Megan’s parents greeted me and expressed some concern that their daughter was going out. She was their little girl and the idea of her being out with a boy scared them a bit. Still, Megan actually hadn’t dated since the last time she went out with me, and the Kwan’s seemed comforted that their daughter was going with a nice boy they already knew (me).
   So when Megan came downstairs, we all suitably oohed and ahhed as the young lady had put on makeup, done her hair, and was wearing a cute but age-appropriate dress. Megan’s appearance was far beyond her usual T-shirt, jeans, and ponytail daily approach.
   Dinner was great. We went to a burger joint where we ran into a bunch of our other classmates. But after chatting a bit we got our own little booth and settled in to enjoy each other’s company. Being prior friends, conversation came easily to us and I didn’t have to force anything like I did occasionally on previous dates.
   We then hurried to make our movie time. Since Megan was still just fifteen, her parents imposed a 10pm curfew. Once we got settled, Megan let me slide my hand into hers and we stayed like that for the entire movie.
   Twice, I leaned over and kissed her. Neither time did she object.
   Now in the darkness of the theater, usually around the second kiss I would start sliding my hand up from her waist towards a breast, gently moving in to cop a feel. Only two of my school dates had ever let me get that far. The others, including Megan, had reached up to stop my hand well before it got too close.
   But I’d already hadsex. I’d already suckled the bare nipples of a grown woman with nice big tits. I didn’t need to get the cheap thrill of cupping a teenager’s A-cups outside both her bra and her blouse. So when I kissed Megan, I didn’t bother trying to cop a feel. I just enjoyed her presence and enjoyed the softness of her lips. It was a reflection of the way I felt about her. She was sweet, she was my friend, and I didn’t want to treat her like a sex object.
   But Megan wanted to feel a little more like a sex object. The third time I went to kiss her during the movie, she seemed pretty impatient. And when I pulled away to return my attention to the screen, Megan just huffed at me quietly,“Stop being such a nice guy, Ben.”
   Quickly, I turned my head back to hers with a questioning look.“Huh?”
   Megan rolled her eyes and then she grabbed my hand and unceremoniously planted it on her boob. Reflexively, I tried to pull away, but she held my hand in place. And even through the padding of her bra and her blouse, I could feel the slight bump of a hard nipple denting the material.
   I took the hint and began to squeeze Megan’s boob, and this time when I leaned in to kiss her, she met me in a rush of passion.
   We didn’t go any further than that, although I did fondle her breasts when we kissed twice more before the movie ended. I didn’t need to pressure Megan into any more than exactly what she wanted. After all, I knew Keira would be letting me go all the way later on.
   At the end of the night, just outside her front door, I gave Megan a goodbye kiss that took her breath away.* * *
   The next day was a lazy Saturday. There was only a month to go before finals, but I was procrastinating my studying. In the morning, I met up with the guys to go to the batting cages. In typical teenage fashion, hitting the balls with bats turned into a contest of manliness. Or is that stupidity? In any case, we took turns covering our eyes and crotches with our hands, stepping in front of the fast-pitch hardballs and getting whacked while our supposed“friends” laughed like hyenas.
   I went home bruised and battered, but felt I had successfully defended my male honor. Kenny was going to have a hard time living down the moment when he ducked out of the way of a ball at the last second. Even taking two more balls to the chest afterwards weren’t enough to erase his shame.
   After lunch, my little sister Brooke talked me into helping her with a 5000 piece puzzle she was working on, and we spent a couple of hours lying on the floor of the family room putting things together. The 14-year-old twerp wasn’t quite so annoying when she had something to focus on.
   In the afternoon, I heard the doorbell ring and my dad went to go get it. A moment later, I heard him say,“Oh, hi Keira.”
   At first, the name didn’t register. But then when Miss McNeil walked into the family room, I suddenly realized my dad was talking to MY Keira. And on this warm mid-May day, she was positively stunning in a baby ringer T-shirt that hugged her tits, a short skirt, and wedge-heeled sandals, all of which showed off her long legs. She looked 21 again. Her dark hair was pulled back and her sparkling emerald eyes shone straight at me as she said, “Hi, Ben. Hi, Brooke.”
   Brooke politely replied,“Hello, Miss McNeil.”
   I just stared dumbly. What was she doing here? And good lord she looked hot! Fortunately, silence is the status quo for a teenage boy, so no one thought it odd that I hadn’t responded. If I had, I probably would have slipped up and addressed her as Keira instead of Miss McNeil.
   My mom came out just then and greeted our neighbor.“Well, hi, Keira! What’s up?”
   “Good afternoon, Beth. Well, I’d like to talk to you and Michael about Ben.”
   “What? Did he do something wrong?” My dad immediately put in with concern in his voice.
   “Oh no, no. Ben has been wonderful. And he’s been so helpful around the house these past couple of years.” Keira turned her green gaze to me. “He’s growing up into a fine young man.”
   “Yes he is,” Mom agreed. “So what’s going on then?”
   “Well,” Keira began and glanced down at the floor for a moment. “I was thinking to hire Ben.”
   “Hire?” Dad queried.
   “I want to do some redecorating around the house. I want to convert the spare bedroom into a real home office. Repaint a bit. Change out some fixtures. I mean, for the past three years, I’ve left everythingexactly the same way it was when Colin died. I didn’t want things to change.”
   Keira took a deep breath and looked over at me.“But things HAVE changed, and I think it’s time I started moving on. I can’t just be widow McNeil forever.”
   Mom went over and hugged her neighbor and friend.“Good for you, Keira.”
   Dad was a little more practical.“But you want to hire Ben? He’s good for fixing up odds and ends here and there, but he’s not a professional contractor. And besides, he’s still in school.”
   “Well, first off, I’m not doing anything drastic. No knocking down walls or anything like that. Just some paint, some fixtures, maybe assembling some furniture. Nothing he can’t handle. I just don’t see the need to pay all that money to some contractors. And besides, I’m in no rush. I wasthinking maybe one afternoon a week for now. We’ll figure something out when summer comes.”
   “Hmm…” Dad looked thoughtful. “What do you think, Ben?”
   I blinked twice before answering a little too eagerly,“I’d LOVE to.”
   Brooke shot me an odd look, but I ignored her as I explained,“I mean, it’s a big project and it’ll all be under my control. I’ve never gotten to do something like that before. And you know I’d just get bored at home during the summer anyways.”
   “Maybe Saturdays?” Keira added. “I wouldn’t want to take him away on a school night.”
   Mom shrugged.“Sounds okay to me. What do you think, Michael?” she asked my dad.
   “I suppose. As long as Ben is willing to do it.”
   I nodded hurriedly.
   “But no slacking off Ben,” Dad warned. “If you take this job you have an obligation and responsibility to do it right.”
   “I will!” I grinned.
   Then Dad paused.“Don’t you even want to know how much you’re being paid?”
   Keira and I grinned at each other. If I had my way, I’d be paid in sex. But I didn’t say that, stating only, “We’ll work it out. Honestly, I’m not doing this for the money.”
   My parents beamed at me, believing I was solely motivated by my ambition to tackle a project on my own. If only they knew my ulterior motives as well.
   “Well, I’m sure you’ll pay him a fair wage, Keira. When do you want him to start?” Mom asked.
   “How about right now?” Keira suggested. “We’ll go over to my house and talk about what kind of projects I’m thinking about. And I’ll have him home in time for dinner.”* * *
   Twenty minutes later I was naked and flat on my back across Keira’s bed. Post-ejaculation, my body felt like melting into the mattress as I was floating in a sea of pleasure.
   Keira just scooped up the last glob of my cum from her lip and then popped it into her mouth, moaning,“Mmm… yummy…”
   Naked, she crawled onto the bed. Her swaying breasts captured my attention despite the orgasmic fog in my brain.“Have you ever eaten a pussy, Ben?”
   “No.”
   “Will you?”
   “For you, anything,” I said in a deep and honest voice.
   She chuckled.“You know, I believe that.” Keira then rolled over onto her back and spread her legs to the sides, her knees in the air as she planted her feet onto the bed. “Now, Ben. If you’re going to do this, you’ve got to do this right.”
   I nodded while moving around to put my head between her thighs. I looked down at the closed lips of her pussy, studying it and quickly identifying her hooded clit for future reference.“Teach me, Keira.”
   “You bet I will.”* * *
   By the time I headed home, I’d picked up the basics of cunnilingus and I certainly knew more about thrusting and angling my cock in the missionary position.
   I was also short about three quarts of semen. And when Keira had gone to empty all that out, we found out we’d been just in time since her period was just starting. She said she was going on the pill immediately and hoped to be done with her period by the next Saturday.
   I gave my neighbor a passionate thank you kiss that left her breathless and then hurried home. I still had another thirty minutes before dinner, and as it turned out, I needed the extra time.
   Brooke had wanted me to help her finish the puzzle. But when I lay down on the floor beside her, my little sister wrinkled up her nose and said,“You smell funny, Ben. What were you doing over there?”
   My mind immediately started whirling. I hadn’t thought about the possibility of smelling like sex. Would my parents smell me and figure it out? My jaw waggled up and down a few times before I managed to come up with, “I was moving furniture. I guess I got a little sweaty.”
   Brooke seemed to buy it, because all she said was,“Well you stink. Go take a shower or something.”
   I agreed and went to wash away the evidence of my illicit behavior.
   Then at dinner, I daydreamed about making love.* * *
   On Monday, after calculating an intercept point midway between Megan’s first and second periods, I hurried to that spot and only had to wait a minute before she came walking along, flanked by both Abigail and Allison Sanders. It was my first time seeing Megan since our date.
   The girls were chattering on incessantly but Megan abruptly exited the conversation when she saw me waiting for her.“Ben!” she exclaimed happily and ran over to me.
   She skidded to a halt about two feet away and clutched her binder to her chest with both forearms wrapped around it.“What are you doing here? Isn’t your second period on the other side of the school?”
   “Yeah, but I couldn’t wait to see you again,” I said charmingly. I wasn’t really THAT pained with desire to see her again, but I figured it was what she wanted to hear. After all, I liked being with Megan and I DID want to be with her more.
   I was right. Megan’s face lit up, and then she blushed and smiled and started twisting slowly, as if she couldn’t stand still.
   I continued,“And I wanted to ask, will you go out with me again this Friday?”
   “Yes! Of course!” She was positively effervescent.
   “Great! Uh, we’ll talk at lunch or something and figure out what you want to do.” I grinned, Megan nodded, and the Sanders twins tittered three feet away.
   “See ya later,” Megan said dreamily as she turned to rejoin her friends.* * *
   Megan stayed in a perky mood all week. We sat side-by-side at lunch every day, and on Friday before our date, she tentatively reached out and held my hand as we walked to fifth period. The touch of her hand sent a pleasant buzz all through my body, and I would have loved to keep that feeling forever.
   Seeing our fingers entwined, Cassidy started in on the teasing, but Megan defiantly gripped my hand and wouldn’t let go. I was just happy a girl wanted to hold my hand in public.
   Our date that night was a simple affair. Tacos were the dinner of choice and miniature golf was the romantic date spot. Megan had a quiet focus and precision about her, and I was rather embarrassed when she beat me. But I made up for it when I sunk the hole in one on the eighteenth to win us a free game for next time.
   When the alarms went off and all the lights started flashing, Megan leaped into my arms with glee and hugged me while squealing excitedly. And even though I didn’t NEED to cop a feel, it was just too tempting to grab some of Megan’s ass while she was wrapped around my taller body.
   Megan clearly felt my touch. But she didn’t glare at me nor slap my hand away. In fact, she simply giggled and then rubbed her own buttcheeks at my hand. When I finally set her down, Megan got a very nice kiss for letting me touch her ass.* * *
   Saturday, unfortunately, turned out to be a grueling work day. Keira and I had done nothing but screw the previous Saturday and this time I actually had to do some work so we’d have something to show for it if anyone got suspicious.
   Moving furniture around really did get me hot and sweaty. It was another warm day and inside the house it was becoming stifling. I commented on it and Keira teasingly told me to just work naked.
   Grinning, I at least took my shirt off and went back to work. But one look at my bare chest and Keira promptly tackled me onto the couch, shucked my shorts, and then inhaled my cock. Then, after one quick cumload into her mouth just to get our rocks off, Keira decided to teach me doggy-style while she knelt on the couch cushions and braced herself against the backrest.
   I had to admit, watching my dick spearing in and out of Keira’s pussy from behind while I reached around and fondled her breasts was possibly the greatest experience of my life up until that point.
   But then it was back to work. By the end of the day, the spare bedroom had been cleared out and a fresh coat of paint adorned the walls. And then just before I went home, Keira threw me onto her bed and taught me more about making love.JUNE 2000, SOPHOMORE YEAR
   It was a Friday when Adrienne Dennis deigned to speak with me once again. I was just leaving the main quad after giving Megan a sweet kiss goodbye, and I was walking on air as I headed off for my next period.
   Life was good. School was almost over. I had a budding romantic relationship with Megan, who would be my date later in the evening. And tomorrow, I planned on fucking Keira so many times that she would risk drowning in my cum. And to top things all off, when I’d measured myself this morning I was an even 5’10”. As long as my growth spurt kept up, I’d easily be six feet by the start of my Junior year. So naturally, there was an extra spring in my step as I sauntered down the hallway.
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came the sultry, sweet voice from my left. I turned just in time to see Adrienne fall into step with me, her spray-on jeans hugging her every curve while her big tits wobbled enticingly in her too-tight top.
   Despite my surprise, it took me less than a second to get my bearings.“Hey, Adrienne. What’s up?”
   “Nothing much. You’re heading out to the 500-wing, right?”
   “Yeah, Spanish in 503.” I arched an eyebrow. Why would Adrienne Dennis know, or want to know, where my classes were?
   “I’m in 507. U.S. History,” she said. “I’ll walk with you.”
   Confused, I couldn’t help but say, “Uh, you’ve never walked with me before, Adrienne.”
   “Well, I make it a point to only walk with the best looking guys on campus. Now you qualify.” She dropped her eyes obviously up and down my body. “Why? Don’t you want me walking with you?” There was an extra purr in Adrienne’s voice that set my heart racing.
   Hmm, be within a few feet of one of the most gorgeous girls in the school, a girl who made Senior-class chicks jealous? Let the entire school know that Adrienne Dennis was walking to class with me? Sure, I could handle that.“Hey, hey, just didn’t know I’d been promoted,” I said casually.
   “Well you have been. The girls have been talking about how good you’re looking these last few weeks. You grew up overnight, Ben. Height, posture, confidence. It’s like you’re a whole new man.”
   I thought about Megan. Last semester, she hadn’t wanted to date me anymore. Now, I honestly believed she would agree if I asked her to go steady. And I thought of Keira. I especially thought of what I wanted to do to her tomorrow. I grinned and said, “Yeah, I feel like a new man.”
   “And…” Adrienne’s voice dropped to a conspiratorial whisper. “I have an ulterior motive, Ben.”
   That got my attention and I turned my head. I knew it was too good to be true.“Oh?”
   “Could you… give me a ride home today? Since you’re just a few houses down and all.” Adrienne smiled radiantly.
   I canted my head in confusion.“Doesn’t Robbie normally drive you home?”
   She shrugged.“We broke up. We both want to see other people and figured we’d end it over the summer. But Donna Kincaid couldn’t wait two more weeks.” Adrienne spat the name of the Junior-class school slut like it was a filthy word.
   “Uh, sure. Just meet me after school.”
   “Thanks,” Adrienne smiled warmly at me. I was once again struck by how gorgeous she looked, and I fought not to let my eyes bounce down to her cleavage.
   “But what are you going to do without Robbie driving you?” I asked.
   The buxom blonde shrugged.“There’s only two weeks of school left. I’ll figure something out.”
   I bit down on my impulse to drive her to and from school every day. Despite her assurances to my“promotion”, I still couldn’t conceive that Adrienne Dennis, goddess from Heaven, would want to schlep around in my beater Toyota any more than she had to.
   “Well, see you later,” I said as we approached her classroom.
   Adrienne slowed down and turned to face me with a pleasant smile on her face.“See you later, Ben.”* * *
   “Mmm…” I hummed as I pulled away from Megan’s lips. “See you in a few hours. I’ll be there at six.”
   “I can’t wait. Don’t be late!” Megan giggled. For a second, it looked like she wanted to lean in for another kiss.
   “Hey Ben!” A cheery voice interrupted. Both Megan and I turned to see Adrienne Dennis standing two feet away with her backpack slung over her shoulder.
   “Oh, hey Adrienne. I’ll be just a minute,” I said before turning my attention back to Megan, who shot me a what-the-hell-is-she-doing-here glare at me. I stammered a few seconds while glancing back and forth between the two girls. “Uh, Adrienne lives a few doors down from me. She asked if Icould give her a ride,” I explained to Megan.
   “Oh,” Megan said, momentarily mollified. But she didn’t stop from looking at Adrienne with undisguised repulsion.
   “So I’ll pick you up at six, okay?” I said reassuringly.
   “Okay.” Then Megan leaned into me for another kiss. She made it extra juicy, no doubt for our audience. And then my cute date turned away to meet her parents’ minivan.
   “Sorry about that,” I scratched my head as I turned to head for the student parking lot.
   Adrienne fell right into step with me.“No worries. I’m used to girls getting jealous of the way I look,” she said matter-of-factly. “Your girlfriend?”
   I pinched my eyebrows together.“Uh, not exactly. Tonight will be our third date. Well, fifth technically, but it’s our third date.”
   “Well, good luck then, Ben,” Adrienne grinned. “Girls’ll usually put out on the third date.”
   I arched an eyebrow as I glanced over at the blonde, but she just smiled enigmatically.* * *
   No, Megan didn’t put out that night. I didn’t even get my hand into her crotch.
   The night started off just a little frosty. I figured it had something to do with Adrienne but the last thing I wanted to do was bring up her name only to find out I’d guessed wrong.
   I mean, getting defensive about Adrienne Dennis only to find out Megan was upset because of something in her home life wouldn’t exactly reassure Megan that there was absolutely nothing going on between me and the buxom blonde, no matter how true it actually was.
   But still, Megan warmed up after dinner and she became positively affectionate when I took her for a romantic stroll around one of the many man-made lakes in Orange County.
   Later, in the parking lot, we ended up in the backseat making out. That was the first night Megan unsnapped her own bra, then took my hand and pulled it underneath her blouse, placing my palm over her naked breast. I fondled her boob, learning that she was much more tender than Keira was, so I had to be careful not to pinch too hard.
   Megan also wouldn’t let me see her breasts, only feel them underneath her clothes. And at the end of the night, she gave me a very passionate kiss and thanked me for not pushing her to do anything she wasn’t ready for.* * *
   The very next day, while I was ripping up carpet and studying the how-to-guide for laying down laminate-wood flooring, I told Keira about Megan Kwan.
   I’d been feeling slightly conflicted over my feelings between them, but since Keira was the one giving me regular sex and blowjobs, I wanted to make it clear to her that I’d give up Megan if Keira really wanted me to. It’s not that I didn’t like Megan. I liked her a lot. But Keira was the one putting out, so if I had to choose, I’d choose the one giving me regular sex.
   When I explained this to Keira, she just shook her head and chuckled.“Don’t be silly, Ben. Megan sounds like a nice girl and you deserve to have a real girlfriend in your life.”
   “But… what about you?”
   “Me? I’m not your girlfriend, Ben. I’m your adult neighbor whose just using your body for my pleasure and who could still go to jail for what we’ve been doing. I’m no girlfriend.”
   “But you don’t mind if Megan and I end up… doing stuff?”
   “Do all you want.” Keira shrugged. “Why? How far has she let you get?”
   My storytelling came in fits and starts. At first, I felt weird about talking about Megan when all my instincts reminded me NOT to talk about a girl to anyone else. But somehow, I knew that Keira would be OK for me to confide in. It wasn’t like she was going to spread rumors around the school, and with her experience, she might even be able to give me advice. So in the end I relaxed and told her just about everything.
   “Well, if memory serves me right, the next step, she’ll let you put your hand on her from outside her panties. You’d better hope she doesn’t wear jeans, or it’s never gonna work right.” Keira started pacing as she thought about it. “Now what you need to do is figure out how to get herfeeling really good from outside her panties. And if you do it right, she’ll let your fingersinside her panties and then you can try getting her off.”
   She tapped her finger against her lip while she paced, and then without further ado, Keira marched over, grabbed my arm, and then pulled me over to the couch. She sat me down beside her and then quickly shimmied out of her skirt, leaving her wearing just her panties below the waist.
   “Okay, Ben. Today’s lesson: how to rub a girl. You ready?”
   “Uh, I guess so.”
   “Well, let me put it this way. I’m not going to let YOU cum until after you get me off with just your fingers, got it?”
   “What?” I protested. I’d been looking forward to some serious fucking today.
   “I told you, Ben. Rule #1: You can’t cum until you make sure the girl is satisfied. Remember?”
   “I remember,” I sighed.
   “Okay.” Keira took my hand and guided it down to her crotch. I felt the coarseness of her trimmed pubic thatch, and further down the slippery softness of my lover’s vaginal lips. Keira smiled at me and said, “Let’s begin.”* * *
   “Oh my! Oh… oh… oh… Ben! Ben! Oh, I’m cumming! I’m cumming!”
   Megan threw her head back and arched her neck as the orgasm swept through her. And when she pressed herself against the backrest, she pinned my left arm with such force that I nearly lost my grip on her left boob. But her own bra trapped my hand against her naked breast and I continued fondling it while I leaned in and began planting little kisses along the sensitive skin of her neck.
   That just caused Megan to squeal even louder and shake even harder while the wet tips of my right-hand fingers kept rubbing her clit. And for the first time in my life, I brought a teenage girl to orgasm.
   Like Keira had predicted, once I’d started making Megan feel really good by rubbing outside her panties, I’d gotten her so worked up that she asked me to move my hand inside. Bringing Megan to an explosive orgasm seemed easy after Keira had made me practice and practice and practice on her the previous week.
   After about thirty seconds, the writhing girl flailed out with her arm to bat my hand away from her pussy. I pulled my hand out from her panties and held it up in front of my face, studying the glistening moisture coating my fingers. And then experimentally, I leaned in and licked some of it off.
   I’d been expecting Megan to taste the same as Keira. After all, pussy juice was pussy juice, right? But while the flavors were similar, they were also as different as the smell of their bodies. Keira was a bit muskier, richer. Megan had a lighter and sweeter flavor, like extra sugar in your coffee.
   Speaking of Megan, she opened her eyes just in time to see me take another lick and then moaned,“Ohhh…” in further arousal.
   I turned my head and arched an eyebrow at her.“What, you like seeing me do that?”
   She nodded her head with a blissful expression on her face, and sighed,“Ben, I think I love you…”
   “That’s your orgasm talking,” I chuckled, remembering Keira’s words. “If you want to tell me again when you’re… well… sober, then we’ll have that conversation.”
   “Whatever,” Megan sighed, not yet understanding. She leaned forward, grabbed my head, and stared into my eyes. “I love you, I love you, I love you.” And then she kissed me.
   We kissed for a good ten minutes it seemed, and when Megan finally pulled away, she blinked twice and I was able to see in her eyes that rational thought had returned. And with rational thought came a glimmer of doubt.
   Megan looked down and started fixing her panties and smoothening her skirt. And in a very nervous voice, she asked,“Ben, where did you learn to do that?”
   “Huh?”
   “You obviously don’t have a… a pussy of your own. Where did you learn to masturbate a girl like that? You’ve clearly done it before.”
   My face gave me away. Lying wasn’t even possible. So nervously, I stammered, “Ye… yeah. I’ve done that before.”
   “With who? Did Cassidy let you? Stephanie Vo?” Megan’s voice cracked and her lower lip quivered. And in a small voice she added, “Adrienne?”
   Both eyebrows went up this time and I licked my lips. But then Keira’s Golden Rule popped into mind: Never, EVER, talk about what you’ve done with a girl. Period.
   But I couldn’t just stay silent. Megan rolled her eyes up to me, her big, soft, dark brown irises starting to look at me with a hint of fear. And I didn’t want Megan to fear me. “I… I can’t tell you that, Megan. I’ll admit that yes, I’ve done it before. But I’m not the kind of guy who’ll blababout it, not even to you. And that means you can trust that I won’t tell anyone, not even Kenny, what I’ve done with you, okay?”
   Megan took a deep breath and then nodded. She didn’t look happy, but she wasn’t mad either. “Okay.”
   I opened my arms and Megan eagerly fell into my embrace. I hugged her tightly and kissed her forehead. I also felt her hand fall onto the hard bone in my pants, and Megan gasped when her small hand reflexively squeezed around it. But then I saw the digital clock on my dashboard.
   “We’d probably better get going. We don’t want you to miss your curfew and have your parents ground you.”
   “Doesn’t matter anymore,” Megan said while still touching my cock experimentally through my pants. “Finals are next week.”
   “You’re going to Elaine’s party next Friday, right?” I asked the warm girl wrapped up in my hug.
   “Of course. And then after that, since there’s no more school, my parents said I can go out more than just Friday nights. Monday, Wednesday, whatever. We’ll have all summer.”
   I let go of Megan immediately.“All summer? Okay then, front seat, miss. There is NO WAY I’m going to let you get grounded.”* * *
   The next day, I was right on time at Keira’s house for our regular Saturday home remodeling. She was paying me $7/hour this day to lay down the rest of the laminate flooring. I hadn’t gotten much done the last time due to trying to figure it out in the first place. And we were also constantly taking little “breaks” to work up a sweat of a different nature. So I was actually making more like $14/hour since only half of my time was actually spent doing contract work.
   “Hi, Ben.” Keira smiled at me and I know I saw a lustful flash in her green eyes when she opened the door. She was wearing my favorite house robe, belted loosely with the top hanging open enough for me to see her deep cleavage. I felt a boner forming immediately. “How’d it go last night?”
   I blushed as I thought of the previous night’s activities. “Perfectly, Keira.” I grinned as I walked into the house and she closed the door behind me. “Thank you. Really, thank you, thank you.”
   But Keira had already turned away to start heading for her bedroom. Halfway across the living room, she pulled her hands back and then the robe slid down into a puddle on the floor, leaving the beautiful brunette fully naked with her perky buttcheeks staring back at me. Even at 28, she had the ass of a teenager.“If you really want to thank me, Ben, why don’t you come back to the bedroom and show me how grateful you really are.”
   Ten minutes later, I was naked and flat on my back while Keira bobbed her head up and down my cock. I thought of baseball. I thought of Biology homework. I thought of sweaty, ugly guys in the shower after gym class. Anything to keep my mind off of cumming.
   “Good, Ben. I’m proud you’ve lasted this long,” Keira smiled at me. “But you can let go now. I’m hungry for your cum and I want it NOW, okay?”
   I managed wheeze,“Okay…” and then I released the tension in my ab muscles. Almost immediately all I could feel was the wonderfully warm and wet sensation of a beautiful woman’s mouth showering love on my stiff rod, and then five seconds later my orgasm hit me with such force that my eyes rolled up into my head and I felt like my soul was being sucked out of me through my pecker.
   A low rumble sounded in my ears, sounding like a distant groan that came closer and closer and closer until I realized that I was doing the groaning. And when I stopped, I found that I could hear the wet smacking sounds of Keira as she lapped up the last few bursts of semen I was jetting into her mouth.
   The beautiful brunette woman was soon on top of me, crushing her tits into my chest while we kissed ecstatically.“Hmm… I love doing that. And it was very tasty, Ben. Are you ready to return the favor?”
   I felt myself already starting to get hard just thinking about burying my tongue into Keira’s juicy pussy. It wasn’t even the taste or the thrill of worshipping at that sacred altar that got me aroused. I wanted to see Keira whimpering and moaning my name while she writhed on the bed because of what I was doing to her. There is simply nothing sexier in the world than seeing a naked woman beg for you to fuck her.
   Six minutes and two Keira orgasms later, that was exactly what happened. My face was drenched with pussy juice and she simply started licking it off my cheeks while I pounded my cock into her. I pistoned in and out of her clasping tunnel to the rhythmic litany of“Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!”
   She came while I was mauling her breasts with my lips and tongue and teeth. She came while I ground my pelvic bone over her clit. And she came again when I started firing great wads of cum deep into the depths of her pussy, my hips hunching urgently between her widespread legs while I filled up my widowed neighbor with thick, hot jizz.
   And when she let her head fall back against the pillow, Keira cradled me to her sweaty body and murmured,“You’re getting GOOD.”* * *
   Finals were… finals. I mean, what can you do? You cram the last-night before the test and you hope your brain can retain about half of what you just crammed. You realize the answer to question 13 the moment you take two steps OUT of the classroom. And then you commiserate with your friends for twenty minutes while you discuss the test and realize just how much of a moron you were for not studying earlier.
   “Oh, THAT’s what that question was asking?”
   “Really? I think I put ‘4x’, not ‘4x squared’.”
   “Wait, what do you MEAN there was a question 5b?”
   “Ah hell, my parents are gonna kill me when that report card comes out.”
   “Fuck it. I don’t care anymore. When are you heading over to Elaine’s place?”
   The important thing was: school was out. The past was past, and anything short of hacking the database or sneaking into the records office wouldn’t change your test scores.
   So like any good teenager, I put the past behind me to be ignored and forgotten. And I focused on the future: it was now summer vacation.
   Of course, what’s the end of school without an end-of-school party? Elaine Fukuhara’s parents had this big mansion in the rich kid’s neighborhood. Well, most of the families in our Orange County city were pretty well off. But Elaine’s parents were LOADED. I mean, they had freakin’ live-in maids.
   Anyways, by four in the afternoon Elaine and 30 of her closest friends were out back by the pool, celebrating our newfound freedom. Most of us had been to her house at one time or another, for birthday parties and or study groups or whatever. But this was the first year her parents were letting her have a REAL party.
   There would be nominal adult supervision, or so our own parents were told. That pretty much meant that Elaine’s parents would be gone doing their own thing, but the maids would be around ready to report if things got too out of control. Elaine’s parents also laid down the ground rules. Beer was okay. But any sign of drugs and we’d get shut down.
   I wasn’t too worried. The thirty-odd people in attendance were all casual friends of ours, or at least acquaintances from the Sophomore class. And none ran with a bad crowd or were too out of control. I knew with certainty that at least ten of them had already lost their virginity, probably more. Almost all of them drank the occasional beer. And some of them had tried weed as well, but for the most part, we were all “good kids”.
   Still, as it turned out, two guys did try to bring some weed to the party, but Elaine bitched and threatened to kick them out. And the guys decided they could party well enough without the drugs. After all, there were eighteen girls walking around, most of them wearing bikinis.
   And so I found myself relaxing on a hammock, swaying in the breeze with a swimsuited Megan Kwan pressed up to my right side with a beer can in my left hand. The smell of hamburgers grilling was on the air and the weather was just perfect. Life was good.
   Stephanie Vo walked by with Thuy Tran and Emily Anderson. They stopped when they saw us and I rolled my head over towards them.“’Sup ladies.”
   “Aww, you guys look so cute together,” Stephanie smiled. After our brief three-week thing in February, she’d always felt bad for dumping me. She also wasn’t part of my inner crowd so she hadn’t known as much about mine and Megan’s budding relationship.
   I glanced down at Megan, who just smiled.“Thanks, Steph,” I replied.
   “See you guys around,” she said and then the three girls headed for the pool, making a beeline for James Kaito and some of his guy friends.
   Meanwhile, Kenny was following after Rachel Tyler like a lost puppy. And Daniel Chen was hovering around his girlfriend Elaine like a trusted guard dog, helping manage the party and ready to sprint to wherever she pointed. Three other guys just sat in a line wearing oversized sunglasses, clearly ogling all the girl-flesh they could while trying to hide behind the mirrored shades.
   I loved summer.
   At 8pm the sun was just setting, typical for mid-June. While Megan and I walked back to the chairs after throwing away our cups and plates, I patted my belly and burped after my third double-burger. Megan just laughed and wondered where all that food went since I was still pretty skinny.“I’m a growing boy,” I told her.
   “Well stop growing so tall, Ben, or you’re going to make me feel really awkward standing next to you.” Megan’s laugh was just a little out of control. She didn’t weigh very much and she’d had three beers in the last hour.
   “I dunno,” I answered and then moved Megan right in front of me. “If I can get tall enough so that you’re right here,” I held my hand palm down right next to my crotch. “Then you’ll be at the perfect height for…”
   Megan giggled and slapped my hand,“Stop it, pervert.”
   “Can’t help the way you make me feel, Megan.”
   She sighed in annoyance.“Ben, apparently you CAN. I’ve had to prod you to take every step forward. Since you’ve done such a good job keeping your hands off me, I’m beginning to think you don’t think I’m very pretty.”
   I chuckled.“What, like this?” I reached up and grabbed both of her tits, not caring whether anyone saw us or not.
   “Hey!” Megan giggled and slapped my hands away. I was as surprised by my boldness as she was. Perhaps I’d had a little too much to drink as well. But before I could apologize, Megan just leaned forward and wrapped her arms around me in a hug.
   She let out a long exhalation and then rubbed her cheek into my bare chest.“Do you really want me to, Ben?”
   “Want you to what?” I asked softly while I started rubbing her head.
   Megan’s voice was a whisper. “You know, when you were talking about me being at the right height to… to… well, you know, put my mouth on you?”
   Immediately, my arms cinched tighter around Megan and my heartbeat sped up. But while I was a little buzzed, I wasn’t so drunk that I lost control of my senses. “Uh, Megan, you know I’d never ask you do anything you weren’t comfortable with.”
   She sighed happily.“I know. That’s why I know I can trust you.” And with that, my de facto girlfriend reached up to tug my head down towards her. I let her pull me and we soon met in a tender, sweet kiss.
   When we broke away, Megan was flushed pink and she had a little smile on her face.“Hold on a minute.” And before I could react, she spun around wobbily and then started off towards Elaine and Daniel.
   I sat down on a nearby chair and wondered what was going on. I’d seen that kind of gleam in a woman’s eye before. It was the gleam I saw in Keira’s eyes when she was feeling rather aroused.
   About thirty feet away, I saw Megan lean in to whisper something into Elaine’s ear. Whatever she said, Elaine jerked back with a look of surprise, but then nodded and started gesturing with her hands. And when Megan started walking back to me, I saw Elaine giving me an amused grin from just past Megan’s shoulder.
   “Come on,” Megan said hurriedly as she grabbed my hand and then simply started tugging me towards the house.
   “See, there’s that look again,” Kenny called from his spot where he was huddling close to Rachel Tyler.
   Megan just gave him the bird and pulled me inside. Very quickly, she brought me up the stairs and looked both ways before deciding to go left. Three seconds later she tugged on my hand to pull me into a spare bedroom and then closed the door behind us, locking it with finality.
   “Megan, what are you doing?” I asked nervously.
   “What does it look like I’m doing?”
   “I don’t know,” I said honestly. It looked like Megan wanted to have sex with me or something, but I didn’t want to jump to any conclusions.
   “Take off your trunks,” she ordered while pointing.
   “What?” The swimming trunks were the only stitch of clothing on my body, and I’d never been fully naked in front of Megan.
   She slipped the shoulder straps to her one-piece swimsuit, tugging the sheer material to her waist before she bent and dropped the rest of the suit down to her ankles. I felt my breath catch as she undressed. Even though I’d touched her bare boob as well as put my fingers into her pussy, I’d only ever done so underneath her clothing and as such, I’d never seen Megan naked.
   Until now.
   Megan’s body was clearly that of a 15-year-old girl, and a slightly underdeveloped one at that. Her breasts were still small, an A-cup at best. Her ribs were showing and her hips had only begun to taper outwards from her tiny waist. But even though her body wasn’t nearly as developed as Keira’s, Megan still had her very pretty face and silky black hair. And a naked girl was a naked girl. My dick certainly knew to respond.
   And also, her pubic hair had fully grown in, marking her as an adult woman. It was something I’d only felt but not seen, and now that I looked at it, I could see that her bush was neatly trimmed down like Keira’s had been, probably so that Megan could wear her swimsuit without feeling self-conscious. And as I remembered using my tongue and fingers to make Keira thrash on the bed in orgasmic ecstasy, I immediately began to wonder what it would be like to do that to Megan.
   “C’mon, Ben, take off your trunks. I wanna see it,” Megan said with just the hint of a slur in her voice. A brief warning bell went off in my head that I shouldn’t do anything if she was drunk. She might not realize what she was asking for and might resent me afterwards.
   But then, she was naked. And I was horny. So I pushed the concern aside and did as she asked.
   Megan’s eyes just went wide as my trunks hit the floor, and she gasped as my hard, angry erection began to bob in the air in front of her. No longer seven and three-eighths inches, I was now an even seven and a half. Perhaps instinctively, her hand came up from her waist, reaching towards my cock for a second before she got a little scared and pulled her hand back. A minute earlier, she’d been brash and confident and horny, demanding that I drop trou so that she could see my dick. But now that she could see it, her nerves were getting to her.
   I didn’t want to frighten her, so I moved to the bed and sat down on it, leaning back onto my hands and consciously trying to shrink myself so I didn’t look so imposing. My cock on the other hand, was at full mast and doingits best to look imposing.
   Megan bit her lip then and approached. Once she got to the foot of the bed, she knelt down to bring my dick to eye level, and I watched her eyes get even bigger as she stared the thing down from only a foot away. Clearly, this was Megan’s first look at a real cock. And hesitantly, she reached her hand out to it.
   I stifled a groan when I felt Megan’s soft hands wrap around the shaft. She gasped and then looked up at me. “It’s so… hot!”
   Well, with all the blood that was down there, I figured the damn thing was ten degrees hotter than the rest of my skin. And then experimentally, Megan began to run her hand up and down me.
   It felt incredible. Somehow, Megan was gripping me with just the right amount of force and her fingers were so soft against my sensitive skin. And as I watched her small white hand gliding up and down my almost-purple cock, I felt the tension in my balls as they prepared to evacuate their contents up through my shaft.
   But I didn’t want to cum just yet. I knew I could probably get it up again, but some part of me decided that ejaculating now would bring a premature end to this playtime. So calling on all the control I’d been practicing with Keira, I took a few short breaths and then felt some relaxation come to my tight ab muscles.
   One thing about Megan giving her first handjob, she didn’t yet know how to really vary her stroking in order to get me off. She kept up a pretty steady rhythm without holding me too tightly, and I started to get used to the sensation. She was predictable. And when something’s predictable, you’re just better able to withstand the feeling. I felt like she could jack me all night long.
   But still, it felt damn good and I knew that eventually, Megan would get me off if I didn’t do something to change the situation. “Megan, come up here,” I said through my labored breathing.
   “But I want to keep doing this,” she answered while staring straight at my cock in her hand.
   “Just… face the other way. You can keep playing, but I want to play with you too.”
   Recalling the pleasant memories of the last time I’d rubbed her clit, Megan quickly agreed and moved to climb onto the bed beside me. But instead of letting her lay down, I directed her so that she was on all fours directly on top of me, with her butt just inches from my face. “Ben, what are you doing?”
   “I just want to get a closer look while you’re looking too. I think they call this position the sixty-nine.”
   Megan giggled,“Sounds kinky.” And then she went back to studying and slowly stroking my cock.
   We were of different heights. From 5’4” to 5’10” may sound like a lot, but actually, the six inch difference wasn’t that bad. Plus, Megan was really just looking at my dick, so when I tugged on her hips until her pussy was directly over my face, she didn’t object and instead just kept fondling me.
   I’d said before that I don’t find a pussy all that attractive. But the mental note of what this funny-looking thing really was for DID excite me. And in Megan’s excitement, the pink inner lips of her pussy were peeking out at me. I couldn’t help it. I had to take a taste.
   Now from our relative positions, Megan was able to hover just over my belly-button with her left hand next to my left hip to hold herself up while she jacked my cock with her right hand. She was in fact doing just that when I brought her hips down to my face and took a long, wet lick from clit all the way to her anus, and when I did that, Megan went absolutely NUTS.
   Her legs immediately shot out to the sides, dropping the full weight of her torso onto my face, which also drove my tongue in between her folds. The rest of her body went rigid, and she screamed,“Holy SHIT!” in a panicked voice.
   Well, when Megan locked up, I stopped immediately and waited to hear her shrill complaint and braced myself to be slapped somewhere. Our entire dating relationship, I’d let Megan make the first move every time. I just didn’t want to pressure her. After all, every girl I’d ever tried to make the first move on had rebuffed me.
   But this time, Megan just started wriggling her ass in my face as I heard her gasp,“Whatever the fuck you did, do it again!”
   I heard the excitement in Megan’s voice, and I started chuckling as I imagined her face contorted with pleasure the same way Keira looked whenever I went down on her. So getting a new grip on Megan’s hips, I pushed her up so that she could support herself on her knees again, and then I proceeded to give Megan the finest first rug-munching a girl could ever ask for.
   Calling on every technique Keira had taught me so far, I licked, I sucked, and I stiffened my tongue and put it just a bit into Megan’s pussy. Megan wailed like a banshee, hollering how wonderful everything felt as she let loose without restraint. Her first orgasm came within three minutes. The second was two minutes later.
   And as I pushed Megan into her third orgasm, causing her to cry in ecstasy, in her inebriated state while drunk on beer and orgasms, the young girl simply opened her mouth and shoved my cock inside.
   I hadn’t quite been prepared for that, since after I began eating her out she’d neglected to focus on stroking my dick. But once my pecker found itself surrounded by warmth and wetness, it knew what to do. And after being wound up from ten minutes of stroking by a cute 15-year-old girl, I was about to blow.
   Baseball, Biology, and sweaty guys at the gym couldn’t help me now. I managed to warn “Megan!” in a hoarse voice, and then all of a sudden I was erupting great gouts of white lava into the black-haired teen’s mouth.
   She choked almost immediately as the first was splattered against her throat, and she pulled her head off. Then all I could do was yell to the world that I was cumming while I gripped Megan’s ass in my hands and continued spurting into the air.
   With my hands on her ass, Megan’s torso didn’t move, but I felt her twisting this way and that, perhaps to try and get herself out of the firing line of my sperm cannon. But in the midst of my orgasm, I had no motor control to do anything to help her out except to squeeze her buttcheeks even tighter and hold her in place.
   Eventually, finally, I stopped spurting and I let go of Megan. She quickly rolled off me and then turned around, giggling and laughing hysterically. And as her face came into view, I saw why. My little teen friend was absolutely COVERED in spunk. She had jizz running from her forehead to her cheeks, with one obvious line only broken by her eye when she blinked.
   “Hmm, that didn’t taste as bad as I thought it might. Cassidy said it was disgusting.” And with that, Megan scooped a bit of jizz off her chin with one finger and popped it into her mouth, where she tasted it evaluatively. “It IS kind of salty, but not in a bad way. And I LOVE that it’s YOUR cum, Ben.”
   “Well, you wear it well,” I grinned, and Megan started laughing again. Then she rolled off the bed and went into the adjacent bathroom to wash her face off. I found some tissues and wiped my own face up as well.
   A few minutes later, Megan came back fully naked and she practically dove into my arms. She’d found some mouthwash and rinsed herself out before kissing me. I didn’t bother to tell her that she didn’t need to.
   I’d tell her the next time we did it.* * *
   Once again dressed in our swimsuits, I gave Megan a last kiss before opening the door. Perhaps I should have realized that her unrestrained screaming would alert the house to our activities. Perhaps I should have realized that the bedroom we were in overlooked the backyard, and thus said screaming would carry through the window glass to anyone below who cared to listen. But I hadn’t realized these things before.
   And when I opened the door, it was to see Cassidy, Abigail, Allison, Kenny, and Sung Joon standing in the hallway gawking at us.
   Megan blushed. Then she went out first and started walking down the hallway. Cassidy was immediately by her side and the two girls began whispering animatedly. I was almost positive Megan was already giving Cassidy a blow-by-blow recap ofexactly what we’d been doing in the bedroom. Abigail and Allison quickly followed after.
   That left me with the two guys. And the second the girls went down the stairs, Kenny leaned in and asked,“Did you fuck her?”
   I got a pained look on my face.“What?”
   “Did you fuck her? Everyone could hear you both cumming.”
   “Man, I’m not saying a word.” I rolled my eyes and then stalked out of the room, floating on air.
   Kenny took one glance at my face and then started grinning.“You sly dog you!”
   Sung quickly added,“How was she?”
   I just shook my head in annoyance and strode away.“I need a beer, man.”* * *
   The last two weeks of June were definitely the best two weeks of my entire life. Quite simply, I got off with a beautiful girl EVERY SINGLE DAY.
   The Saturday after Elaine’s party, I went to do contracting work at Keira’s house, where I plugged her pipes full of semen, gave her tits a good waxing, and then hopped into the shower to make sure every square millimeter on her body was squeaky clean.
   Then just for good measure, I plugged her pipes full of semen again.
   On Sunday, Megan’s parents let me take her out on a date since it was no longer a school night. We wound up at a popular makeout spot in the foothills with a halfway decent view of the city beneath us, not that either of us was looking at it. Megan wanted me to finger her to orgasm and then she went down on me, asking me to teach her how to give a proper blowjob.
   I was only too happy to instruct her, using my knowledge of what Keira did to make me so happy. This time, Megan tried swallowing, and she was able to get most of it without choking.
   On Monday, Megan ordered me to come to her house while her parents were at work. Ten seconds after I arrived, she ordered me to her bedroom and to strip. Then we got into a sixty-nine and orally pleasured each other until we were both sweaty, limp piles of flesh.
   Then we did it again on Tuesday.
   And Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
   Keira was right: make the girl happy and she’ll keep coming back for more.
   And that’s not to mean I was getting by with just Megan’s blowjobs. No, every weekday afternoon, I would work for four hours on Keira’s house, as if it was my summer job. At least two of those hours were actually spent working, before Keira got home from her day job. But the rest of the time I spent rutting my dick inside Keira’s clenching pussy, fine tuning my techniques for bringing her to the most amazing orgasms. She’d just finished her period the week before and we had all the time in the world to repeatedly plug her full of my hot cum.
   Keira was a patient teacher, and I was a more than willing student, soaking up everything like a sponge. And it wasn’t just how to have sex. She showed me how to touch the less obvious parts of a woman’s body, like behind her knee or the small of her back while paying attention to the expressions on her face. She taught me about different ways of kissing, and how to read the moods of a girl and how to respond appropriately.
   On Friday, Keira had the day off, so I rushed straight to Keira’s place immediately after leaving Megan’s, still with Megan’s pussy juice on my face. Keira went crazy that day after tasting another girl on my lips, and the sex we had that afternoon absolutely blew my mind.
   Oddly enough, Saturday was the closest I came to not having an orgasm, after being the day I could always look forward to as my day of sex.
   Both sets of parents were home, making a rendezvous with either of my girls a little more complicated. Also, after going a week straight while being drained of all bodily fluids, I was actually a bit worn out. So Megan and I settled for a nice hour-long phone call before promising to pick up where we left off on Monday.
   And so I spent most of my Saturday playing video games, doing another puzzle with Brooke, and taking the twins to see some tweener movie that bored me to tears.
   I was actually playing video games just before dinner when the phone rang. Brandi waltzed over a minute later, handing me the cordless handset and barking,“Don’t take too long. I’m expecting a call.”
   “Who is it?”
   “I dunno. Some girl.”
   I rolled my eyes at my older sister and then put the receiver to my ear.“Hello?”
   “Don’t say anything out loud, Ben. It’s Keira.”
   “Oh, hey,” I tried to say as nonchalantly as possible. Brandi had already left the room and only the twins were still around, reading a couple of Brandi’s old Babysitter’s Club books.
   “I need you, Ben,” Keira husked with deep longing in her voice. “I’ve an itch inside me that only you can scratch. Can you come by for just a quickie?”
   “Uh, sure, I guess,” I blushed bright red and looked around, wondering if any of my sisters could tell how nervous I’d suddenly become.
   “Just get up and leave. No one will notice if you’re gone for a few minutes. If anyone asks, just say you got bored and went for a run around the block, okay?”
   “Okay.”
   “Hurry, Ben,” Keira moaned.
   Getting up and walking with a purpose as if I knew exactly what I was doing and where I was going, I headed out the front door without anyone really noticing I’d left.
   Jogging lightly, I darted my head left and right when I approached Keira’s house to see if anyone was looking. And then I quickly hustled up to her front door and knocked.
   The door flew open and Keira actually dragged me inside before quickly shutting the door. And then a second later, her robe was gone and she was naked as she bent over the couch with her ass pointing back at me. In an urgent tone, Keira begged,“Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me hard!”
   My shorts were already on the floor.* * *
   Sunday, I talked my parents into letting Megan and I go for a drive. We were only out for an hour, but I managed to cum twice while getting her off three times. Then once the weekdays started, both Megan and Keira were right back into our usual routines. I spent the morning eating out Megan and blowing a load or two into the back of her throat. I then spent four hours in the afternoon finishing the contracting job and blowing a load or three into the back of Keira’s throat or into her pussy.
   If anything, sex the second week was much more urgent and much more intense. It was because we all knew that in just a few days, we wouldn’t be able to have sex anymore.
   See, every year, my family went up to this camp in WAY Northern California, almost to the Oregon border. We met up with family friends that we didn’t see very often, usually staying for four weeks all at once. This year, we were leaving on Saturday, July 1st for the 11-hour drive and returning home four Saturdays later on the 29th.
   That meant for four weeks I wouldn’t be able to engage in oral play with Megan. That meant for four weeks I wouldn’t be able to have sex with Keira. I usually looked forward to the annual trip. The camp had a waterslide, ziplines, rope swings, and plenty of other activities to keep a teenage boy occupied. But this year, I was dreading it. I mean, I had friends at the camp, including some very pretty girls and one very special childhood friend. But I had two sure things waiting for me with open mouths and pussies at home.
   Given a choice between lots of sex or rope swings, what do you THINK a 16-year-old boy would pick?
   I didn’t know what would happen between us while I was gone. Would Megan find another guy to explore her budding sexuality with? Would she maybe give HIM her cherry while I was gone? Given what I knew about her, it didn’t seem likely. But she was a young girl flush with new hormones, and who knew what was possible?
   And as for the Keira situation, already the contracting work excuse had run its course. Four hours every weekday for the past two weeks let me finish everything by Wednesday. While that let us spend all four hours of Thursday romping naked through her house, it also meant we’d have to come up a new excuse when I returned; otherwise I might not be able to have sex with my beautiful 28-year-old neighbor anymore.
   On that last Friday before summer camp, everything came to a head.* * *
   Friday started off like any other weekday. I slept in, waking up well after my parents had gone off to work. I got myself cereal and a bagel while Brandi roamed the house talking on the cordless phone. Brooke had already left to spend one last day with her friends. And little Eden and Emma were reading while Brandi officially babysat everyone.
   Dutifully, I told Brandi when I left. She knew I was going to Megan’s house and just replied her usual, “See ya later, alligator.” It was a phrase she’d picked up when I was five.
   Once at her house, Megan and I spent a lot of time talking and cuddling before our innocent little kisses picked up in temperature and intensity. Eventually, I got her top off and was suckling like a baby at her puffy nipples and fingering her clit, every now and again pressing my fingers into her slit and feeling the membrane of her maidenhead.
   On some days, we sixty-nined to get each other off at the same time. But most days, like today, we switched off giving each other pleasure. I spent a whole half-hour getting Megan worked up, practicing the things Keira had taught me for building arousal and getting a girl to such a state where she was positively vibrating with sexual energy. And when I finally took Megan over the edge, she dumped so much honey onto my face that I felt like I was drowning.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” Megan crooned when she came down from her climax. “I am SOOO going to miss you until you get back.”
   “I’ll miss you, too,” I assured her.
   Then, Megan spent a good fifteen minutes practicing everything I’d taught her about blowing me. And when she took me over the edge, she was able to swallow every drop without missing a beat. And before she could pull away, I quickly tugged Megan up to meet me and we kissed the lovers’ kiss of passion and thanks.
   When we finally parted, Megan sighed and smiled.“Cassidy still won’t believe that you’ll kiss me after cumming in my mouth.”
   I groaned.“I still can’t believe you tell Cassidy everything that we’re doing.”
   “She’s my best friend,” Megan complained. “She tells me everything she does, too.”
   “I know, I know. It’s just weird, that’s all. I don’t think you’d like it if I told Kenny everything that we’re doing.”
   “That’s because Kenny can’t keep his mouth shut,” Megan giggled and then lay herself against my chest. I delighted in feeling her hard nipples pressing into my skin and reached an arm around her to palm one breast.
   Megan sighed while I began rubbing and then started laughing again.“Besides, telling Cassidy about how awesome you are gets her sooo jealous of me. I keep telling her that she got the first shot at you and then dumped you.” Megan giggled. “She moans constantly about blowing it. Says you’re a lot better than any boyfriend she’s ever had.”
   I chuckled at that. It wasn’t like I harbored any grudges against Cassidy. We were friends. But it definitely padded the ego to know a girl who stopped going out with me less than a year ago was now regretting that decision.
   Then Megan went really quiet and really still. It was sudden enough that it grabbed my attention and I turned to see her looking up at me with big eyes. And softly, she asked,“Ben, am I your girlfriend?”
   I canted my head.“What, you mean like steady?”
   “Yeah.”
   I started smiling at the thought. I’d never had a girlfriend before. Not an official one that lasted longer than two months anyways. And I figured it would be nice. A girlfriend would be someone I could kiss and hold hands with in public, maybe even be a regular source of orgasms and pleasure. Guys around school who had girlfriends were also considered to have a higher status than the single guys, for the most part. So yeah, I’d like to have a girlfriend.
   But did I really want Megan to be that girlfriend?
   I liked Megan well enough. We’d been good friends and she was certainly growing up into a very pretty girl. I knew that by next year she’d more fully grow into her body and she’d be a babe. And I’d been very happy with her for the past month or so. But… it wasn’t like I really NEEDED Megan, specifically. I mean, itwasn’t like I’d been crushing on her before we started going out. If anything, I had a crush on Keira. But I’d been dateless for a long time and then Megan had come along, asking ME to go out and I’d thought, ‘Sure, why not?’
   And since then, Megan let me touch her body and eat her out and she gave me blowjobs. The way we were going, if I became her boyfriend, I was pretty sure she’d start having sex with me soon. Getting the official title of boyfriend might also keep her from finding another guy while I was gone. Quite selfishly, I wanted Megan all to myself.
   I’d been silent and thinking for a long while. Megan must have started to worry, because she asked hesitantly, “Ben?”
   “Yes,” I stated firmly and nodded my head for emphasis. Then I smiled and turned to kiss Megan on the nose. “Megan Mei-Yin Kwan, will you be my girlfriend?”
   Megan’s radiant smile was answer enough. And then she shyly verbalized, “Yes, Ben. I’d love to be your girlfriend.”
   I grinned and then we started up a fresh makeout session that lasted for ten minutes. Our tongues intertwined and we both kept slurping up our own saliva we were so excited. By the end of it, we were both out of breath and I’d rolled Megan onto her back while I leaned over her, panting softly.
   And then with her eyes wide open, Megan searched into my eyes and asked in a voice so soft and quiet I wasn’t sure I heard her right, “Do you want to have sex with me?”
   I cocked my head.“Say that again?”
   She licked her lips and then in a slightly stronger voice, repeated,“Do you want to have sex with me, Ben?”
   I was both shocked and energized at the same time. But trying to remain cool, I smiled as warmly and as encouragingly as possible while simultaneously only half-succeeding at controlling my excitement.“Of course I do, Megan.”
   Nervously, she flicked her gaze up and down my face before saying,“Then let’s do it.”
   My dick was rock hard. I didn’t think the sucker had a pair of ears, but it certainly had reacted to Megan’s words. Still, my brain and conscience still had toeholds on the situation. I’d never pushed a girl to do anything she wasn’t ready for and I wasn’t about to start now. In a soothing voice, I asked, “Are you sure?”
   Megan bit her lip and nodded up and down.
   “Are you sure? You can’t take this one back, Megan.” My dick tried to start beating my body by bouncing off my stomach, angry with the rest of me for even questioning a girl after she’d said “let’s do it”.
   “I’m sure,” Megan said in a wavering voice that sounded anything but sure.
   I was 16. I wanted sex. I wanted sex with Megan. And automatically, I started to move my hips over hers. I’d rolled on top of Keira and entered her enough times to know what I was doing. And ever so gently, I used my feet to part Megan’s legs until she spread her own thighs for me, and I nudged my erection towards this 15-year-old girl’s waiting folds. This was it. I was about to take Megan’s virginity. I wanted in!
   “Uh, Ben. I don’t suppose you have a condom.”
   I stopped immediately and blinked twice. Condom? Why the hell would I have a condom? Keira was on the pill and I never expected to be having sex with Megan unless it was pre-planned. With a grimace, I admitted,“Uh, no.”
   Megan frowned and I scrunched up my face while I felt my cockhead nudging against her virginal labia. I was THIS close. In a strained voice, I asked,“You want me to stop?”
   Megan thought about it for a few seconds, blinking quickly. I started to feel myself going just a little bit soft. There was clear worry in her eyes, years and years of her parents warning her not to bring shame to the family probably running through her head. She bit her lip again and then rolled her eyes up to me. And in a hopeful voice, she asked,“You can pull out in time, right?”
   “Right,” I nodded confidently while feeling the adrenaline thumping in my skull. I wanted to have sex! I wanted to have sex! I wanted to have sex! Lemme in!
   She sighed and searched my eyes.“You’re not a virgin, are you, Ben?” It was a statement, not a question.
   I groaned, this conversation the LAST thing I wanted to be doing right now.“No, I’m not. That’s why you can trust that I’ll pull out,” I said reassuringly. After all, many times Keira had wanted me to cum in her mouth after fucking her, so I was already familiar with that ‘about-to-cum’ feeling.
   “With who?” Her voice trembled nervously.
   I groaned again.“Megan, we’ve been over this. I’m not the kind of guy who’ll talk about that sort of thing.”
   “I know, I know. I’m just… I’m just scared,” she said in a quiet voice.
   “Scared of what?”
   “You just seem so much more experienced than me. I love what we’re doing, but I worry that if I don’t have sex with you then I’m going to lose you. You’ll leave for a month and then when you come back, you won’t want me anymore.”
   “What?” As much as I wanted pussy, girl-drama is DEFINITELY a turn-off. I rolled to my side beside Megan, my cock still hard but the urge to fuck starting to wane.
   I leaned down and looked into my new girlfriend’s eyes. “Megan, I promised you I would never make you do anything you weren’t ready for. Haven’t I kept that promise?”
   Her eyes darted back and forth at me nervously.“Yes.”
   “And didn’t I just ask you to be my girlfriend?”
   “Yes.”
   I smiled and stroked my hand over Megan’s forehead. “Then stop worrying. You’ll still be my girlfriend when I get home, no matter what.”
   “You mean that?”
   “Yes,” I put on the most honest and trustworthy expression I could. Then I sighed as my conscience kicked in. “And I don’t think you’re ready to have sex yet, are you?”
   “Well…” she pouted, clearly still wanting to have sex but just as clearly uncertain.
   “You don’t HAVE to have sex with me just to keep me, Megan.” Inwardly, I rolled my eyes. Why they hell was I not already on top of her thrusting away to my heart’s content?
   Megan grimaced and started shaking her head.“I’m still scared of it.”
   I sighed.“Then that’s a ‘no’. You’re not ready.”
   Megan exhaled slowly, but with relief. Then she closed up her legs and turned onto her side.“I’m sorry, Ben.”
   “It’s okay. Really, it’s okay.” I took a deep breath and then looked down at my dick. Even with everything that had gone on, the damn thing was still hard and throbbing. “Megan, honey?”
   “Yes, Ben?” She looked upset with herself, angry for not being brave enough and yet relieved at the same time.
   I stared forlornly at my erection.“Can I get another blowjob?”
   Megan’s eyes lit up with a way to still make me happy and she grinned. “Of course!”* * *
   Fifteen minutes later, I was dressed and standing at Megan’s door. Megan was crying and hugging me and crying some more. She whined that she’d miss me and made me promise to send her a letter from camp. If she had her way, she’d have me write her a letter a day. But she dropped that idea when I got shocked and remarked, “Don’t go all psycho-stalking girlfriend on me now.”
   Megan kissed me one last time and then sniffled.“Don’t forget me.”
   “Of course not,” I said reassuringly.
   “I love you, Ben.” Her voice cracked as she said it, and the tears were pouring down her cheeks.
   I looked down for a second. I didn’t really love Megan, but how else could I respond? Hey girl, I love what we’re doing but I don’t love you? Actually, I’m crushing on my 28-year-old widowed neighbor? That just wouldn’t work. Megan was my girlfriend. And I DID care about her. I hoped that would be enough. So I shrugged and tossed her a casual, “Love ya, too.”* * *
   By the time I got to Keira’s, I was going crazy with lust. Yeah, I’d had two orgasms, but I wanted to FUCK.
   I mean, come on, blowjobs are wonderful and all, but they’re like chocolate bars compared to the most mouth-watering Porterhouse steak you’ve had in your whole life. The occasional Kit-kat or Hershey bar is great to snack on here and there. But when you want that steak… chocolate just won’t do.
   In fact, I’d only been able to keep myself from raping Megan because I KNEW I could have sex later on with Keira. Sure, I wanted to respect Megan and not push her into anything she might regret later. Having sex with her that morning might make me happy for one day, but if she regretted it I would have a really hard time getting laid a second or third or fifteenth time with Megan down the road.
   But once my naked dick was touching Megan’s naked pussy lips, it had taken all of my self-control, and Megan’s ill-timed request for a condom, to keep me from just diving in. If I hadn’t known in the back of my head that I’d be visiting Keira in the afternoon, I’m not sure how things would have played out.
   Megan’s brand of chocolate had at least taken the edge off for a little while. But after an hour of video games and Brandi’s pathetic idea of lunch, I was really horny again and actually getting a little twitchy with the urge to bury my cock into some pussy.
   So when the time FINALLY came for me to head over to Keira’s to ostensibly finish the contracting job, I was way more than ready to go.
   Keira never knew what hit her.
   I think it’s fair to say that I practically raped her the instant I got in the door. If any of our neighbors had chosen to look at the front door when it opened, they probably would have seen me immediately lock the 28-year-old widow in a passionate kiss right in the doorway. My hands were immediately on her tits and I pushed her into the house just enough to kick the door closed.
   We didn’t even make it to the couch. My need was so great that I stumbled and got our feet entangled, causing us to fall flat on the floor where I sprawled Keira across the living room rug. I considered myself very fortunate that she was wearing a skirt that day, because inside ten seconds I’d opened my fly, moved her panties aside, and shoved my dick into her still relatively-dry snatch.
   “Ben!” she winced in pain, but I paid her no mind as I kept scrabbling with my feet against the floor to gain traction and cram inch after inch into her pussy. I mauled her tits with my hands and kept raining kisses all over her face, and thankfully, Keira had started to lubricate by the time Igot fully embedded.
   And then I started thrusting.
   It was hard. It was fast. It was even a little painful. The rug wasn’t meant as a cushioning device, and I could feel my own knees banging against the floor while I rutted into Keira’s complaint body, dominating her with my larger frame and heavier weight. But while she may not have been expecting me to take her so quickly and so harshly, she still wanted to fuck and she soon got into it, lunging her hips up to meet me and starting to chant, “Ben! Ben! Ben!”
   Inside two minutes, I groaned and then emptied myself into her. I stopped breathing and my whole body just jerked spasmodically while I fired wad after wad of cum into my beautiful brunette neighbor’s body. And only then did the craziness quiet down in my mind.
   For a long minute, there were no sounds but that of both of us panting. I bent my head down so that my forehead was resting on the floor. Keira brought her arms up and around my back, stroking me lovingly. There was no way she’d had an orgasm, but she didn’t seem upset by me breaking Rule #1.
   “Ben, are you okay?” She asked in a soothing voice.
   I groaned before slowly grunting,“Yeah.”
   “Something happen with Megan?”
   I sighed and grunted in the same tone,“Yeah.”
   She went quiet again and rubbed my back. But after a while, I must have been getting too heavy for her because she pushed on my shoulders until I rolled myself off to flop onto my back.
   Keira sat up and reached down to pull off her panties. Then, gingerly, she got up and retrieved some tissues to clean herself up before my cum stained her skirt. And finally, she went to sit on the sofa and patted the seat next to her.
   I tucked away my limp penis and zipped up, then went to join her.
   “What happened?” Keira asked as she put her hand on my knee.
   So I told her.
   I told her about the usual blowjobs and such. But what really piqued her interest was when Megan suggested we have sex. And as I explained how I talked Megan out of going through with it because I’d realized the young girl wasn’t ready for sex, Keira was positively beaming at me. She hugged me and said with some moisture in her eyes, “Ben, I’m proud of you.”
   I blushed and felt guilty at the same time.“Yeah well, I’m not so proud of what I just did to you. I’m really sorry about that. It’s just that I got so worked up at Megan’s and I couldn’t control myself any longer.”
   “That’s okay,” Keira smiled and touched my cheek. “Actually, it was a little fun. Every now and again, it’s kinda nice… well, notnice,” she giggled. “But it’s kinky to just be TAKEN and ravaged like that. We’ll have to do it again sometime.”
   I sighed and the worry that had been building in my mind over the past few days welled up inside me. And in a scared voice that sounded more like a teenager than a fully-formed adult, I asked,“Will there be a sometime for us? When I get back?”
   Keira’s eyebrows canted to the sides and she touched my face again. “This can’t last forever, Ben. I mean, I love what we’re doing, and you’ve made me feel ALIVE again for the first time in years. But there’s no future for us and the longer we continue the more likely we’re going to get caught.”
   My heart sank.“I’m not asking for forever. I just want… I just want longer, okay?”
   She exhaled and then leaned forward until her forehead touched mine. I closed my eyes and felt the energy of her affection washing over me while she stroked my cheek. And then in that sweet voice I’d come to love so much, she said, “Let’s just take it one day at a time, okay? Whatever happens, happens.”
   I sighed.“Okay.”
   “Now, what time were your parents coming over to see what you’ve accomplished?”
   “Not until after dinner.”
   “Mmm…” Keira hummed. “Then we have the rest of the afternoon to play. Make it good, Ben. It’s got to last me a whole month.”* * *
   We made it good.
   I knew Keira McNeil didn’t want me falling in love with her, at least any more than I already had. Every time I’d shown an inclination to verbally express that I loved her, she would back off and remind me of our age gap and my lack of maturity in such matters. I was barely two months past my sixteenth birthday; what could I possibly know about real love? So most of our encounters were physical releases of pleasure. She was my teacher in the arts of lovemaking. She was my confidant and advisor to my relationship issues with Megan. And she could be a hard-driving homeowner when I was working on her house.
   But that afternoon, we really made LOVE.
   We started with a quick tour of the renovations. We even practiced a routine for how we would present the work to my parents when they came over after dinner. And then Keira wanted to try out the new desk, where I bent her over and took her from behind before blowing my load into her mouth.
   Afterwards, I scooted her onto the desktop surface and ate her out to two more orgasms, after which my cock was hard again and Keira marveled at teenage recovery.
   We then took a luxurious soak in the bathtub, complete with bubbles. Keira lit candles around the master bathroom, sat me down first, and then climbed in with her back against my chest.
   I didn’t go for her boobs right away. Instead, I wrapped my arms around her and just held her lovingly while she laid her head back over my shoulder. And this time, when I whispered how much I loved her, she just hummed happily and turned to nuzzle her nose against my neck.
   Of course, I couldn’t resist fondling her forever. The sight of her big, creamy orbs floating in the water tugged at me until I cupped both of them in my hands. And then I put to practical use all the things Keira had taught me about stroking a woman’s body, finding all of her less obvious erogenous zones.
   By the time I slipped two fingers into her pussy underwater while lightly thumbing her clit, Keira was panting and writhing on top of my body. My dick was hard and she was rubbing her lower back against it, repeatedly passing her spine back and forth across my erection as if its very presence made her much more aroused. And when I bent forward and kissed her neck while squeezing her left nipple and furiously rubbing my hand in her crotch, I brought Keira to a brief but satisfying climax.
   She turned then, splashing some water out of the tub as she rotated to face me. It was an awkward fit, neither of us quite sure where to put our knees. But we worked it out and Keira bent forward to plant a very tender kiss on my lips. And when she finally pulled away, her eyes were half-lidded as she husked,“Let’s get to the bed.”
   Sounded good to me. Keira was up first, and I paused to admire her beautiful naked body while dripping wet and glistening in the light. Her thighs were well-toned. Her waist screamed out to be held in my hands. And of course, her round breasts were quite literally mouth-watering. She grabbed a towel as she stepped out, and then smirked when she realized I was just watching her dry off instead of getting up myself.
   “Come on, Ben. You can gawk when I’m dry, naked, and waiting for you on my bed.”
   I jumped to my feet and hurriedly began to dry off as well.
   With her head start, Keira was done well before me. In the end, she was just idly patting her hair with the towel wrapped around her shoulders and covering her breasts while leaving her crotch bare.
   I didn’t quite get every drop of water off me, but I just couldn’t wait any longer. My towel hit the floor and then a second later I’d scooped Keira into my arms. And while she shrieked in my ear, I hopped us the few feet over and into the Master Bedroom until I could drop her naked body onto the bed.
   “Ben!” she squealed before I moved on top of her body. And then my tongue was in her mouth while my chest crushed down onto her tits, and Keira moaned while her hand snaked up and pulled me tightly against her.
   My hands roamed everywhere. But eventually, I managed to clasp Keira’s hands in mine. I pulled them up and pinned them back against the mattress above her head. And using just my hips, I shifted until my cock was centered against her moistened pussy, and with a quick flip of my hips I started to push myself inside her.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” Keira groaned while my shaft slowly filled her up. She tried to move her arms just once, but my hands held them fast against the mattress. And while I stared down at her blissful face from inches away, I groaned and pushed until we were fully joined together.
   It was incredible. SHE felt incredible. I kissed her once again, then pulled away and gazed lovingly into her eyes, reveling in the sparkling green color she was flashing back at me. And then we MOVED.
   I wasn’t just pumping. I mean, I vaguely remembered an in and out motion, but it wasn’t just me pushing back and forth into her relatively stationary pussy. I mean we MOVED. Keira’s hips were bucking up at me but also rotating clockwise and counterclockwise. She shook side to side as if we were in the middle of an earthquake, and me and my dick followed wherever she went.
   In, out, in, out, left, right, and round and round we went. My lips were on her lips. Her breath was in my face. Her nipples were in my mouth. Her teeth were at my neck.
   Keira rubbed her clit against my pelvic bone. She ground it down against my cock shaft. And when we accidentally found her G-spot, I rammed her hard and fast for a few minutes until I set her off on just her first of many orgasms.
   “Ungh! Ungh! Yes! Oh, yes! Like that! Ben! Harder!”
   “Ugh! Urrrgh! Fuck! So tight! Keira! So good! So fucking good!”
   Her heels drummed against my buttcheeks. I gripped her thighs in my hands and yanked her body against me. And she nearly popped my head off when her ankles crossed behind my neck. We were fucking. We were making love. We were EVERYTHING.
   I lost track of how many times Keira came. I knew it was more than four. She was insatiable and in some kind of zone. Her pussy muscles rippled and clenched and spasmed constantly. One orgasm would wane just as the next began exploding in her brain.
   At one point, she rolled us over without disengaging and athletically rode herself to a climax, her dark brown bangs flying into her face. But then it was my turn, as I felt the coiling pressure of orgasm starting to come over me.
   I rolled us back over and lifted Keira’s legs up, gripping her ankles and pinning them back by her own ears while I savagely thrust into her over and again. She reached up and grabbed my head behind my ears, kissing me fiercely and moaning, “Fill me up, Ben. Cum in my tight pussy and fill me up until I’m overflowing. Cum for me, baby. CUM!”
   So I came. My hips lost the rhythm for a second before I spastically jerked forward so suddenly that even I wasn’t expecting it. And when Keira felt the hot and wet warmth begin to flood her insides, she threw her head back and howled her latest climax, joining me in ecstasy while I shot a deluge of semen into her body.
   Still folded in half, Keira twitched erratically while her head shook from side to side, and I was gasping for air as my pecker continued spurting more and more cum. Our orgasms were simply INCREDIBLE.
   But you know what they about all good things…
   When reality set back into our brains, we were both wheezing and exhausted. My heavy weight was once again pinning her down, but Keira just clutched me to her chest and didn’t seem interested in letting me roll off of her.
   When she got her breath back, Keira looked up at me and said,“Thank you, Ben.”
   “For what?”
   She sighed and nuzzled our noses together before blinking and then giving me a serious look.“I think I’m ready to move on now, Ben. I’ve mourned long enough, and I’m ready to live my life again. You’ve done that for me. I’ll always love Colin, but you’ve shown me that I CAN feel happiness again. Thank you.”
   I sensed an undercurrent of finality to her statement. It was as if I’d done my job, and now that my job was done, we would be moving on. Maybe not right away, but I already knew that things would be different when I got back from our trip. My relationship with Keira McNeil had peaked, and it was all downhill from here.
   “I’ll never forget you, Keira,” I said honestly to the woman who first touched my heart.
   Softly, all she said was,“I know.”
   Chapter 3: Summer CampSATURDAY, JULY 1, 2000
   Ordinarily, I could read for hours in a moving car without ever getting motion sick. Brooke and the twins were the same way, the three of them quietly reading in the last row bench seat of our full-size family van while we cruised up Highway 5 towards Northern California.
   But if there’s a downside to getting your growth spurt, it’s that nothing in your body works quite the way you’re used to. I’m normally a pretty coordinated guy, if not the most athletic. But it wasn’t until the past few months that I really needed to pay attention to how I was walking, lest I trip or stumble with my slightly longer than expected legs. I also had the odd chest pain, as if my rib cage was stretching. And today, whenever I tried to read for more than half an hour, I started getting dizzy and a wave of nausea would come over me.
   Dammit, I’d expected to be able to read and catch up on some of my paperback books on the drive up to Morris Camp. But alas, it was not to be. And so I sat there, bored out of my mind, not even able to sleep. I was never very good at sleeping in moving vehicles. And it was an 11-hour drive.
   Brandi, on the other hand, spent the entire trip unconscious in the bucket seat to my right. She’d fought with Brooke for the first hour about how far she could recline her seat, but eventually Brandi complained to my dad, who enforced a compromise. And now my older sister was zonked out the world.
   My dad had also conked out. He’d driven the first shift from our 5am departure while my mom slept. Then after lunch, he’d switched with my mom to take a nap before driving again for the final leg, and his snoring wasn’t exactly helping. Even Brooke and the twins each got at least six hours of extra sleep on the drive up.
   So as we wound our way through the last two-lane highways to the camp, I was the only one in the family who’d been awake the entire time. And I was pretty cranky.
   And what REALLY didn’t help was when Brooke started teasing me about Dawn.HISTORY
   Dawn Evans was the middle daughter of Jack and Deanna Evans. Deanna had been my mom’s college roommate when they went to school at UC Berkeley, and the two women had been practically inseparable.
   They did everything together. They signed up for classes together. They took their meals together. And they even double-dated. After graduation, both young women went to work for the same company, and when they met their future husbands, both men had to pass approval from the best friend before taking anything further.
   Even after marriage, with the two weddings coming just months apart, the two women continued to do everything together. They bought houses in the Bay Area on the same street. They got pregnant around the same time, with Deanna giving birth to first daughter Dayna and then my mom having Brandi three weeks later.
   And they continued this trend with the rest of their children. Two years after the first daughters, Mom had me and then Deanna had Dawn on July 9th. Two years after that, my little sister Brooke popped out within a month of Dorothy Jean (DJ). Only one thing threw the women for a loop. My baby sisters Eden and Emma were an accident nearly four years later. But at least the twins had each other. Deanna even joked that Emma was reallyhers, to continue the pairing tradition.
   So it was only natural, being that we were neighbors and family friends, for Brandi and Dayna to become close pals, as well as me and Dawn, and then Brooke and DJ. The girl pairings immediately bonded, and Dawn and I were young enough that the whole cooties and male/female sex dynamic was not yet an issue. We made for visually interesting couples: the Evanses were all blonde-haired and blue-eyed. My family was all black-haired and dark-eyed.
   Our two families also went on our annual camp vacations, where we kids pretty much stayed in pairs 24/7, even sleeping in each other’s beds.
   But then, when I was 10, my dad had gotten a BIG promotion that required him to relocate his family to Orange County. My mom hadn’t really wanted to split up our two families, but the offer was just too good to pass up. So we and the Evans went our separate ways, and kids being kids, we all adjusted pretty easily. At least we still had the 1-month summer visits to the camp.
   Brandi and Dayna remained long-distance best friends. Yeah, they had their best friends at school, but once at the camp they immediately fell back into old habits and did everything together and referred to each other as their“best friend”. Same for Brooke and DJ.
   Dawn and I, on the other hand, were the same long-distance best friends as the others… until I turned 13.
   That’s when I got hormones, and we all know how much those damn chemicals mess with a boy’s mind. All of a sudden, I realized that Dawn was a GIRL. I wouldn’t get my growth spurt for more than two more years, so those hormones weren’t out of control, but I still started to feel urges I wasn’texpecting and I found myself looking at Dawn much differently than in the past.
   I’d literally known Dawn since we were babies. I was there when she took her first step. We’d fought the closet monsters together when we were kids. And then at camp, when she was 11 and got her first bra, Dawn had pulled me aside and promptly stripped her top so she could show me the bra and then her naked boobs. Given that I hadn’t gotten any hormones yet, I hadn’t paid her boobs much notice, other than to confirm that our chests looked different. And when she wanted to see my wiener, I simply dropped trou and let her take a look.
   From the time we were little, Dawn and I had played show and tell and went skinny-dipping in the creek without ever even thinking about it. We even took the occasional shower together for efficiency, same as Brandi and Dayna or Brooke and DJ.
   But that year, when we turned 13, it took just one look at beautiful young Dawn in a bikini and I’d pop a tent in my swim trunks. And all of a sudden we weren’t supposed to be taking showers together anymore.
   That’s not to say Dawn and I stopped getting along. We were still each other’s best friend and it was sheer habit to spend all our time together. It’s just that the nature of our conversations became radically different from the ones our siblings were having with each other. While Brandi and Dayna were 15 and talking about boys, and while Brooke and DJ were 11 and talking about horses, Dawn and I started talking about sex.
   It was simple, we were the only mixed-sex pairing. I could ask Dawn about girls and she could ask me about boys. Not that either of us was ready to do anything remotely sexual. She’d never even kissed a boy and I hadn’t kissed a girl, let alone touch some private part of the body. But we were used to show and tell. So every year, Dawn and I showed each other how much our bodies were developing, and then we told each other how beautiful we both looked.
   In Dawn’s case, it was no exaggeration. She had clear blue eyes, light blonde hair, and a picture perfect face that was the prettiest I’d ever seen, Adrienne and Keira both included. In sharp contrast to my late development, Dawn had developed pretty early, and at 14 she was proudly showing me her 30Bbras. At the time, she was also three inches taller than me, with most of the extra height in her long, coltish legs.
   For me, I figured that Dawn was just being polite in her praise. Just from looking at the other teenagers around the camp, it was obvious that I was developing late and that I had neither the height nor bulk to seem anything more than just a child. Still, I was the only male with hair on his balls willing to let Dawn look, so she wasn’t rude to me or anything.
   And then last summer, on July 9th for her 15th birthday, Dawn wanted her first kiss.
   I was terrible.
   I slobbered too much. I had no clue what to do with my tongue. And I kept bumping my nose into hers.
   But still, I’d felt a little electrical thrill pass through my lips and shoot down my spine. It felt so good that I had to try again.
   And again…
   And again…
   I think we were kissing for about an hour. And by the end of it, we’d at least figured out how not to drool and how not to bump our noses into each other. And then Dawn thanked me for a wonderful birthday present.
   I just whimpered happily. I could scarcely believe that a gorgeous girl like Dawn hadn’t kissed a boy yet. After all, most girls with her looks had already lost their virginities by 15. Me, I understood. I was a late bloomer. But Dawn?
   When I asked her about it, she just gave me an enigmatic smile and said she’d been waiting for me. And then that funny smile stayed on her face and she held my hand all the way down to the main lodge when we went for dinner.
   Of course, Dawn and I walking up hand-in-hand caused quite a stir in our two families. Big sister Dayna and mom Deanna quickly pulled Dawn aside to grill her while my little sister Brooke just started the“Dawn and Ben, sitting in a tree, K-I-S-S-I-N-G” song. She even got Eden and Emma to join in. If only they knew how right they were.
   The next day, Dawn and I went hiking up the creek to our“special spot”. I asked what her mom and sister had said to her, but she told me not to worry about it. Then once we got to our usual spot, a cool clearing with shade and a nice breeze, we spent a good half-hour practicing kissing.
   I got so turned on that I asked Dawn if I could see her breasts again, and she quickly pulled up her shirt and popped her bra to show me that her boobs had gotten even bigger in the past year. And then she talked about how many boys at school had been asking her out, hoping for the same view I was getting right that very moment.
   Even when we did return to the main camp area to use the rope swing and waterslide, I found I had to spend a lot of time in the cold lake trying to keep my erection at bay, which reared up every time I saw Dawn go by in her bikini.
   That’s not to say that our lives were all kissing and talking about sex. We played pool and ping-pong. We watched movies and went on hikes, both with and without our siblings. And we had other friends at the camp besides each other. It was just that Dawn and I were each other’s best friend.
   Well, best friends that kissed every day.
   Then, during our last week, we both took things up another notch.
   After a pleasant makeout session, where we were getting pretty damn good at kissing, Dawn’s insistent panting had gotten rather more heated than usual. We’d progressed to the point where we’d strip fully naked and keep kissing, careful not to touch each other but happy to pause every now and again and ogle each other’s bodies for a while before using the visuals to fuel the energy of our kisses.
   And that’s when Dawn pulled away just long enough to shove her hand into her own crotch and start masturbating herself with a fury. “I can’t wait anymore. I’ve got to get off now!” she exclaimed.
   No stranger to masturbation myself, my hand instinctively went to my own rod.
   “Do it, Ben! Jack off for me! I want to watch!” And then Dawn started moaning again as her left hand started pawing at her own boobs while her right rubbed fervently at her clit.
   With wide eyes, I focused in on Dawn’s round boobs and the hard nipples she was tweaking with her fingers, and then I looked down to find that my own right hand had begun slowly pumping my dick.
   Neither of us lasted very long. Dawn started squealing at me to kiss her, and the moment my tongue entered her mouth she came, moaning into my mouth while her body jerked in orgasm.
   I was only a few seconds later, and as these spurting things tend to do, I sprayed cum all over the front of Dawn’s naked body.
   “Oh! Eww! Eww!” she shrieked and tried to back away from me while I reflexively hosed her down, some of my jizz splattering her tits and dripping down her belly. Some of the rest just got on her legs.
   “I’m sorry!” I groaned while Dawn hurriedly got up and waded naked into the creek, desperately trying to clean herself off in the water.
   “I couldn’t help it!” I moaned as Dawn shot daggers at me.
   “Point that thing somewhere else next time, okay?” she snarled.
   “Okay, okay,” I winced and held my hands up defensively.
   As Dawn got back out of the water and started toweling herself off, she calmed down. At least for a little while. Then she moaned and smacked herself in the forehead.“Oh, my mom is gonna kill me!”
   Startled, I asked,“What? Why?”
   “I promised her we wouldn’t do anything sexual.”
   “Well, we didn’t… technically,” I reasoned. “I mean, I’m sure you’ve masturbated before and I KNOW I have. So it’s not like we did anything we hadn’t already done before, even if in private. It’s not like you gave me a blowjob or something.”
   “You came on me!” she squealed.
   “Well, that was an accident! And it’s not like you can get knocked up from cum on your skin. It’s got to go inside you.”
   She just rolled her eyes.“Maybe,” Dawn sighed. “We’ll see what mom says.”
   “Do you have to tell her?” I asked. “My mom never asks me to tell her this stuff.”
   Dawn nodded and looked over at me.“Yeah, if I didn’t tell her, she wouldn’t even let me go on these hikes alone with you.”
   “Oh. OK.”
   Now dry, Dawn dropped the towel back down to the blanket and frowned before leaning forward to rest her arms on her upraised knees. From this new position, I could see her tuft of trimmed blonde hair and spread pussy lips, a little more engorged from her recent orgasm. I could also see her perky breasts, and already I felt a new stirring in my groin.
   Dawn took one look at my reviving cock and she smirked.“Think you can kiss me again without popping off all over my chest?”
   “Yeah, I think I can control myself… I think…”
   “Well,” Dawn drawled as she turned to crawl over to me. “I’ll take that chance.” And then she leaned in to start frenching me again.
   The next day, Dawn cheerily grabbed my hand and started tugging me towards the creek trail.“Mom said it’s OK as long as we don’t touch each other. Even the masturbating part.”
   “Yes!” I crowed as we started off on our morning hike.
   “And DON’T cum on me again, okay?”
   “Okay, okay.”
   So for the rest of the week, until it was time to go home, Dawn and I french kissed like crazy and watched each other masturbate until we couldn’t cum anymore. I only accidentally spurted on her once more, and even then, it just got a bit of her leg.
   It was a WONDERFUL week.
   Just before we left, Dawn and I exchanged a very satisfying goodbye kiss while both our families watched on with amusement. I was already looking forward to the next summer when I could see her again.
   And on the drive home, I realized I had my very first real crush… on Dawn, my best friend.
   But then the months passed into August and September and like any teenager, it was out of sight, out of mind. I still thought fondly of Dawn, but the infatuation waned. And in September when Cassidy O’Leary asked me to go out on a date, I pretty much put Dawn out of my head…
   … until now.SATURDAY, JULY 1, 2000
   “So, Ben, are you excited to be seeing Daaawwwn?” Brooke teased in a sing-song voice.
   I just did my best to ignore her. I was bone tired from the long drive, my head was thick, and a big part of me wanted to just jump into the back seat and bite Brooke to death.
   But we were only a half-hour away from the camp, and soon enough I could put some distance between me and my bratty sister. 14-year-olds can act so mature at school, but in the privacy of our family van, I could have sworn Brooke was seven years old again.
   “Dawn and Ben, sitting in a tree, K-I-S-”
   “Hey! That got old a LONG time ago,” I interrupted, turning and glaring at my little sister.
   “Justignore her,” Brandi intoned with her eyes still closed. “You keep reacting and she’ll never shut up.”
   I rolled my eyes and turned my back to Brooke, pulling together every ounce of maturity I had to ignore the little twerp. Thankfully, she did shut up after fifteen minutes and started recognizing the landmarks leading up to the camp.
   The Evans usually beat us there. After all, they lived six hours closer than we did. That meant in fifteen minutes, I would be seeing Dawn again, and I WAS excited to see her.
   But I wasn’t quite sure how to act around her. Sure, last year we’d been kissing and even masturbating in front of each other. It was fun, it was experimental, and the orgasms were very relieving. It certainly beat sneaking off by myself to jerk off.
   How much had Dawn changed in the last year? Hell, how much had I already changed? Last year, I was a short, underdeveloped, barely 15-year-old virgin who hadn’t even kissed a girl. Now I was 5’10”, my cock had practically doubled in size, and I’d had sex more times than I could count. Last year, I didn’t have a girlfriend or anything. This year, I had a lovelorn Megan Kwan pining away for me and a gorgeous older lover in Keira McNeil who stilldominated my dreams.
   If Dawn had changed even half as much as me, it was going to be a very weird few weeks. And I spent those last fifteen minutes running through every possible scenario.
   Maybe things would stay exactly the same. Dawn would want to make out, but not touch. But then again, a girl as beautiful as Dawn would HAVE to have a boyfriend by now, so maybe we couldn’t touch, kiss, or even see each other naked out of loyalty to her new man. On the other hand, maybe Dawn was ready to take the next steps in her sexuality and she wanted to fuck me within an hour of my arrival.
   I simply had no clue. She’d sent me the occasional letter to let me know she was doing alright. But me being a teenaged guy, I hadn’t written back once. Maybe she hated me for that and didn’t even want to be my friend anymore.
   And then we arrived.
   Sure enough, the Evanses were home. They always had the cabin right next to ours. Dawn’s bunk even had both our initials carved into it from when we were 8. And the minute our van pulled up outside our cabin, I glanced out the window and saw the Evans’ front door opening.
   Jack and Deanna Evans were the first ones out the door, waving while my dad parked the van. Brandi was quick to pop the van’s double-doors and hop out, and I followed soon after.
   I turned back to look at the cabin porch just in time to see Dayna come out. In general, while I didn’t think her face was as pretty as Dawn’s, I’d certainly noticed her body the past few years. The two-year advantage she had in development had led to some luscious curves around the Evans family height and natural slenderness, and the eldest Evans daughter had never been shy about showing off that fantastic body around the camp.
   So as Dayna looked down to watch her step off the porch, I let my eyes drop to her impressive cleavage shown off by a sky blue tank top and only partially covered by the linen shirt she wore over the top of it.
   But then Dayna picked her head back up to look at us, her fine blonde hair tossed back to finally show me her face, and then I realized it was DAWN. And all my exhaustion evaporated in a sea of adrenaline.
   Holy SHIT she’d grown up! I mean, Dawn had already been developing for a while and I knew she was an earlier bloomer, but somewhere along the line, she picked up an extra few inches of height and her boobs had gotten even bigger. She was just a girl who wouldn’t turn 16 for another week, but already her body was all woman.
   “Ben!” she exclaimed, completely ignoring Brandi or my other sisters who were piling out of the van. She picked up speed in her step and hustled forward towards me with her arms open before awkwardly skidding to a stop just a foot away.
   She blushed. I blushed. And we kind of looked at each other nervously, uncertain how to react.
   “Hey, Dawn, you look great!” I gaped, still amazed at her transformation. I saw the tight skin of her belly and my eyes were drawn to her crotch, hidden by rather short shorts. I checked out her long legs before returning my gaze back up her cleavage and finally to her face. Quite simply, Dawn was the most beautiful girl I’d ever seen in my life, bar none.
   “Me? Wow, Ben, you REALLY grew!” she exclaimed, looking me up and down, her clear blue eyes sparkling.
   We stood there staring at each other for so long we didn’t even notice Dayna and DJ coming out to greet their friends. And while I stood there and gawked at how gorgeous Dawn had become, she asked me the question I’d hoped for only in my wildest dreams. “Can I kiss you now, Ben?”
   I started grinning and nearly choked at the same time.“Uh, yeah,” I said with a big smile.
   Dawn returned the smile, and then we met each other halfway as our arms automatically went around each other and our faces mashed together while we exchanged a very wet, very aggressive, very passionate kiss. Sparkles went off behind my eyes. My stomach flipped and then flipped a few more times. And an excited, warm flush went through my whole body. It was a wonderful kiss. It was like we were picking up exactly where we’d left off eleven months ago.
   DJ giggled as if she’d been expecting her big sister to immediately begin snogging me.
   Brooke just snarked,“Get a room, you two.”
   Blindly, I just flipped my sister the bird without breaking away from Dawn for a microsecond, my middle finger all the response I cared to make. But then my mom spat,“Benjamin!”
   Groaning, I pulled away and bowed my head towards my mom.“Sorry, Mom. I know that was rude.”
   She nodded acceptance and then smiled as she looked at me and Dawn. I’d started to get the impression that our parents secretly hoped Dawn and I would get married someday and further tighten the bonds between our families.
   And then automatically, I apologized to Brooke as well.“I shouldn’t have flipped you off.”
   Brooke shrugged like she didn’t care at all. Then she and DJ started chattering at such a speed that only hummingbirds would be able to make out their conversation.
   Dawn chuckled and then I turned back to her. And with the smooth confidence only a man who’d been getting regular sex can pull off, I swept Dawn into my arms and casually remarked, “Now where were we?” And then I kissed her again.
   Yeah, it was going to be a good summer.* * *
   Brandi and Dayna quickly changed into their bikinis to go catch some rays and tease the guys before the sun went down. Even after such a long drive, since we’d left early in the morning, it wasn’t yet 5pm and in early July, that meant night wouldn’t fall for another few hours.
   I was still huddled up with Dawn when our older sisters came out, and I couldn’t help but notice that Dawn wasn’t the only Evans girl to grow up a bit in the intervening year. Dawn was now about the same height as her 18-year-old big sister, but Dayna wasdefinitely curvier. And the bikini the older blonde wore was doing a woeful job of trying to contain her tits.
   “Show off,” Dawn deadpanned as Dayna went by.
   “Hey, if you’ve got it, flaunt it,” Dayna remarked as her big tits jiggled along.
   I’d started to get an erection just watching the eldest Evans daughter, and I couldn’t help but notice that Brandi was filling out her bikini rather nicely as well.
   Dawn rolled her eyes.“Dayna thinks having Double-D’s now will get all the guys staring at her instead of Felicia Clarkson.”
   Already my head was tracking to follow Dayna’s and Brandi’s passing. “Mm-hmm…” I agreed absently. Dayna had certainly become quite the beautiful young woman.
   “Hey!” Dawn bopped my forehead. “Focus! Focus!”
   I rubbed my head and then kissed Dawn again.“Sorry. I’m just a guy.”
   My standard apology appeared to mollify Dawn, and she took my hand.“C’mon. I’ll help you unpack.”* * *
   Dawn and I stuck together for the rest of the evening, but we were far less obvious about kissing each other once we got those first few liplocks out of our system.
   We chatted while unpacking my gear and putting the sheets on my bunk. And afterwards we helped my parents put away all the family gear and put the cabin in order.
   But the instant our good deeds were done, my mom took one look at us and said,“Okay, kids, you can go ahead and be alone together. We’ll see you at dinner time.”
   Dawn and I took one look at each other and quickly we scampered out to find a quiet place to make out. As it turned out, the best place was Dawn’s cabin. Her parents had come over to visit with my parents, Brooke and DJ were off somewhere, and the elder girls were down by the lake soaking up male attention. Even the twins were gone, sent to the lake to play and meet the other kids while nominally supervised by Brandi.
   So I soon found myself on top of Dawn and on her bed, subconsciously grinding my erection into her hip while our tongues did battle and our ecstatic moans filled the room.
   She tasted so incredibly good, and she was so stunningly beautiful, that the intensity of our kisses started to overwhelm my brain and instinctive impulses began to kick in.
   My hands moved up from her hips and I soon found myself with a right hand full of boob. As if in response, I felt one of Dawn’s hands moving to my ass, pulling me tighter against her hip as she moaned erotically.
   My right hand kept roving, rubbing at Keira’s “alternative” spots for pleasure along the way from outside Dawn’s clothing while my left hand came up and started to rub over her nipple.
   It all felt so good, so natural. Making out this way was the same as when I was doing it with Megan or Keira. And also natural was for my hand to move down over Dawn’s crotch, where my fingers quickly identified her slit and I began to rub over where I guessed her clit would be, my effectiveness limited by the fabric of her shorts and panties between me and my goal.
   Dawn moaned exactly once when I began to stroke her. But then her body went rigid and she suddenly pushed me off her.“Ohmigod!” Dawn gasped, wild-eyed. “Ben?” She seemed almost surprised to see me.
   I was confused.“Yeah?”
   “Oh, I’m sorry. I forgot for a second that it was you. Do you realize we’ve never done that with each other before?”
   “What? Making out?”
   “No, the… touching… and stuff. You were feeling me up.”
   The lightbulb went on in my head.“Oh! Oh, uh, sorry about that. I didn’t realize. I won’t if you don’t want me to.”
   “Oh, no. It was nice, it was nice. I just wasn’t expecting it.” Dawn sighed. “You’re a lot of things I wasn’t expecting.”
   I arched an eyebrow.“What do you mean?”
   Dawn blushed and then smiled.“You are… you’re a lot more experienced now than I thought you’d be. It’s actually a little frightening. I was kind of expecting the little boy I was experimenting with last year. But clearly, you’ve learned a thing or two.”
   I grinned.“I’ve learned a LOT. Want me to show you?”
   She giggled.“Yes! Oh, but not right now,” Dawn held up her hands when it looked like I was going to jump her. “That’s what I mean. The old Ben just let me lead everything. I didn’t have to worry about you doing anything I wasn’t ready for.”
   “You still don’t. I won’t push you into anything you don’t want to do,” I insisted.
   “I used to know you’d NEVER make the first move. But now?” Dawn sighed. “Why do I get the feeling you’re probably more experienced now than I am?”
   I blushed and bit my lip.“Maybe… How far have you gone?”
   Dawn’s eyes flew wide open. “Ben! I can’t tell you that!”
   “Why not? We always told each other EVERYTHING!”
   “But you’re a boy!”
   I shrugged.“I’ve ALWAYS been a boy.”
   She stewed on that for a second, and I smiled. Dawn looked so cute when she was thinking hard. My new look, confidence, and sexual comfort was clearly throwing her for a loop. I decided that I needed to back things off so I didn’t scare her away.
   “Okay Dawn.” I held up my hands and deliberately backed away a foot across the bed. “I don’t want to frighten you. I may be about seven inches taller than you remember, but it’s still me, Ben, the same little boy you grew up with. Remember when we were five and running around naked in theyard?”
   Dawn seemed to visibly relax and I continued.“So let’s just catch up for a bit. Tell me what you’ve been up to this past year.”
   Now Dawn got to glare at me.“I HAVE been telling you. I’m the only one of us writing letters here.”
   I smirked.“Oh yeah. I’m not so good at the letter thing. But that’s just routine stuff: classes and your family and whatever. But how about thegood stuff? Do you have a boyfriend?”
   Dawn blushed and got a little smile.“Yes…”
   “Tell me about him.”
   She shrugged.“He’s just a boy. Same grade as me. All the older boys just wanted me to put out, but I haven’t been ready for that…” Dawn’s eyes flashed at me for a second. “… yet.”
   “How long have you been together?”
   “Since March.”
   “You guys serious?”
   She shrugged again.“I dunno. I don’t think so. I just thought it would be nice to have a boyfriend for a bit. We haven’t even really talked about what’s going to happen next year. And he’s my second boyfriend. The first one only lasted a month before he became a jerk about the whole sex thing.”
   “Sex thing?”
   “Yeah.” Dawn made an ugly face. “He was nice and sweet at first, but then he demanded that I give him a blow job or he’d dump me. So I dumped him first.”
   “Boys,” I drawled and chuckled. “Well, I know the type. There’s a hundred of them at my school.”
   “Mine too. But Mark’s not like that.”
   “Mark, that’s your boyfriend?”
   “Yeah. He hasn’t pushed me into doing anything I wasn’t ready for.”
   “I like him already.” I grinned.
   “What about you? Girlfriend? Or did you just learn all that groping stuff playing the field.” Dawn mimed pawing her own tits, and I started laughing.
   “Ah well, that’s complicated,” I began, thinking first of Keira. As much as I adored and trusted Dawn, I just didn’t feel comfortable revealing the details of that relationship just yet. “Well, let me put it this way, I do have a girlfriend now. My first official girlfriend, actually. Butshe wasn’t the one I learned all that… stuff… with.”
   “Hmm?” Dawn started chuckling, a twinkle in her crystal clear blue eyes. “Is there some other girl out there who let you into her panties without getting a commitment first?”
   I mimed zipping my lip.“A gentleman doesn’t speak of such things. After all, would you like it if I blabbed about us french kissing and watching each other masturbate?”
   “Ben!” Dawn hissed and looked around the empty room to confirm that we were alone.
   “My point exactly. We’re not dating, Dawn. We were just… learning, right?”
   “I guess.”
   “Same thing,” I smiled as I thought of Keira. “Sort of.”
   “Well then,” Dawn pursed her lips and leaned towards me. “Let’s do some more ‘learning’ now…”
   We only got to make out for a few more minutes before dinner time. And afterwards, while Dawn wanted to hang out some more, I was dead tired and had to beg off so I could go pass out.
   Then the next day, Dawn and I took our“learning” to a whole new level.SUNDAY, JULY 2, 2000
   I awoke when a heavy weight dropped on top of me. Instinctively, I pushed out with my arms to dislodge it while my eyes were still closed, but I came up with empty air until I started aiming lower and then I felt another pair of hands batting my hands away while girlish giggles filled the room.
   Surprised, I cracked my eyelids to see a blonde head hovering over me.
   “Wake up, sleepyhead,” Dawn said cheerily. “Man, you sleep like a log.”
   I rolled onto my back, coincidentally shifting Dawn’s sitting position from on top of my left hip until she settled right on top of my crotch. My morning erection was thus pressed up against her pubic bone.
   Dawn’s eyes flew wide and she automatically backed off me. “Speaking of logs…”
   I craned my head left and right. In the big bunk room I shared with all four of my sisters, I was the only one left.“What time is it?” I asked groggily.
   “Breakfast. Your mom sent me to wake you up.”
   I sat up, rubbing my eyes while wearing just my boxer shorts. I stared over to the dresser where all my clothes were.“A little privacy?” I asked.
   Dawn just grinned, settling herself down onto Brooke’s bed and getting herself comfortably seated. “Why? It’s not like you’ve got anything I haven’t seen before.”
   I smirked and then went to change. I had just pulled my shorts down when Dawn gasped and her eyes went wide. Nervously, she pointed at my morning wood, which still hadn’t gone down yet.
   “What?” I asked. “Like you said, nothing you haven’t seen before.”
   “It wasn’t that BIG before,” Dawn whistled.
   I grinned proudly and got dressed.
   After breakfast, Dawn grabbed my hand and took us back to our cabins to pack for a quick hike. And while I puttered around putting towels and ground mats together, she complained,“Hurry up, slowpoke. I’m getting horny.” There was a sultry moan in her voice.
   I took one look over to Dawn, who ran her tongue across her upper lip and looked like she was ready to eat me. And then I started packing faster. Soon, we were on the trail.
   The minute we passed out of sight, Dawn blurted out,“Ben, are you still a virgin?”
   The question took me by such surprise that I came to a dead stop. I furrowed my brow and asked,“Are you sure you want to know?”
   “Yes. I do.”
   “Well, are you going to tell me the same? After all, I AM a boy.”
   “Oh… well…” Dawn waffled.
   I rolled my eyes and started walking again. I didn’t feel like rehashing the same conversation from last night. Dawn quickly hurried to my side. “It’s different. It’s no big deal if a guy is a virgin or not. But girls have to be all… pure… or something.”
   “I’m not going to tell anyone, Dawn,” I sighed in resignation. “But I just don’t think it’s fair if I spill everything and you don’t. We used to tell each other EVERYTHING.”
   “That was different. None of the answers were scary. It was like: Are you a virgin? Yes. Have you touched a boob? No. Have you kissed a boy? No. There was nothing TO admit to.”
   “If you can’t tell me, who can you tell?” I glanced over at her. “C’mon Dawn, we’re best friends, and we live a thousand miles apart. There’s no way anything you tell me can get back to your friends at school. And even if I did go to school with you, I’d never tell ANYONE.”
   “Really?” Dawn’s voice was hopeful.
   “Really,” I said firmly. After all, I’d been keeping Keira McNeil a secret for a long time.
   “Okay,” Dawn said firmly. “We’re going to play Truth or Truth, then.”
   “Don’t you mean Truth or Dare?”
   “Nope. No dares. I ask a question, and you have to answer it truthfully. Period. Then it’s your turn.”
   I chuckled. There was a warning in her voice. I knew she wasn’t going to shy away from the hard questions. “Okay, but one condition, no names or identifying details. I’ll tell you everything, but I won’t incriminate the innocent.”
   “You mean you won’t even tell me what kind of girls you’ve been dating?” Dawn pouted.
   I waggled my head.“Well, blonde, brunette, boob size, sure. But nothing that might identify who they are. I have to keep my promises to them for that.”
   “Fair enough. So are you a virgin, Ben?” Dawn asked quickly.
   I smirked and shook my head.“Wait till we get there.”
   Dawn grinned and then picked up her walking pace.
   When I was eleven, during that first summer after my family had moved to Orange County, Dawn and I had found our“spot”. It was a good half-hour’s hike away from the main buildings, and on a little used trail, so the likelihood of someone stumbling on us was relatively small. That likelihood was made even smaller in that we left the trail a good hundred yards until we came to a secluded grove on the banks of the creek. The twelve by eight foot flat clearing was shaded and blocked on two sides by trees, with bushes behind. The only way anyone could really see us was from across the creek, but there was no obvious vantage point on the other side either. Most days, we had a decent breeze coming down the canyon and the shade kept us from sunburning. It was our private paradise.
   And as we came into it and I started laying down the ground mat and our blankets on top of it, all sorts of pleasant memories came back to me. I remembered when Dawn showed me my first ever pair of boobs, small as they were. I remembered when we showed each other our first pubic hairs. And I especially remembered last year’s makeout and masturbation sessions.
   In the back of my head, I knew we’d be going a lot farther than that this summer.
   Dawn quickly plopped down onto the blankets and took a drink of water from her bottle. I was amazed she waited a whole six seconds before asking.“So Ben, are you still a virgin?”
   “How come you get to go first?” I whined.
   “Because it’s my game. Now are you going to answer or not?” she complained.
   “Fine, fine. No. I’m not.”
   “Wow…” After all my evasions, Dawn seemed to be expecting my answer but she still looked surprised. “Last year, I never would have thought you’d pop your cherry before I saw you again. When did you first do it?”
   “Hey! That’s a second question. It’s my turn now!”
   “FINE.” Dawn rolled her eyes and leaned over onto one elbow. “Yes. I’m still a virgin.”
   “I haven’t asked you anything yet.”
   “But that WAS the question you were going to ask.”
   I grinned evilly and said,“No, it wasn’t. So I still get to ask a question.”
   “But I just told you something private!”
   “You’re right. You did. I guess you gave me a freebie that I didn’t have to ask for.” I started chuckling.
   Dawn glared.“Ben. If you want to see how big my boobs have gotten since last year, shut up and let me ask the next question.”
   My eyes went wide and I deflated. She won.
   “When did you first do it?” Dawn repeated.
   “Actual sex? Uh, that would have been in May.”
   “Oh, so still kind of recent. Okay, your turn.”
   “Finally…” I drawled, but Dawn just shot me another glare. And then I started to formulate my question. I knew she had a boyfriend, and I was almost positive that she was already kissing him. But she said she was still a virgin, so I wasn’t sure how far she’d gone in between. So I decidedto just round the bases. First base was making out. So I asked about second base. “Has anyone touched your bare boobs?”
   Dawn blinked for a couple of seconds.“Well, technically your arm brushed me a couple of times last year.”
   “Dawn…” I warned.
   She sighed and said in a quiet voice.“Yes. They were both kind of rough though. I’m not sure I liked it. The guys certainly liked it.” She blushed. “Actually, the nicest it’s felt was when you were touching my breasts yesterday, from outside my shirt. You were more… caressing me… instead of squeezing me.”
   I smiled and closed my eyes to remember it. Then I said softly,“Your turn.”
   “Have you done it with more than one girl?”
   I shook my head.“No. Just the one.”
   “The girlfriend or the other one?”
   “That’s two questions again, Dawn.”
   “Oh, forget the stupid game,” Dawn moaned. “Just tell me, Ben. Please?”
   I glanced up in thought for a moment before sighing.“Okay, but you have to PROMISE me you won’t tell anyone. If you even tell one of your sisters, then they might tell your mom, who might tell MY mom, and then my mom might be able to figure things out. And I don’t want that, okay?”
   “Okay, I promise.” Dawn held out her hand and spit into her palm. I spit into my palm and we shook on it.
   Satisfied, I began while wiping my hand off on my shorts.“The only girl I’ve had sex with is a couple of years older.” I fudged a bit on the age. “She’s experienced, and she taught me everything I know about sex. But she doesn’t want to date me or anything, I think because I’m only sixteen. Then there’s my girlfriend and the farthest we’ve gone is third base.”
   “You mean third base like touching… down there? Or actually oral?” Dawn leaned forward eagerly.
   “Oral.”
   “Both of you?”
   “Yeah.”
   “So you’ve gotten blowjobs from two different girls.”
   I shrugged.“Yeah.”
   “How many?”
   “How many blowjobs?” I snorted and thought back for a second. “Uh, well… too many to count, actually.”
   “Wow…” Dawn looked suitably impressed. “Are they any good?”
   Now I grinned with pride.“Well, the experienced girl is… well, she’s AMAZING. And my girlfriend is okay, I guess. She’s still learning, but I’m doing my best to teach her.”
   “You… you teach her?” Dawn looked at me curiously.
   “Yeah. She’s gotten a lot better.”
   “Ben…” Dawn began seriously as she looked at the blanket between us. Then she took a deep breath and looked up into my eyes. “Will you teach me?”
   I arched an eyebrow and leaned back in surprise.“You want me to teach you?”
   “Yes. I dumped my first boyfriend because he was a jerk about it. But Mark… Mark is really sweet. I really like him. So… as kind of a going away present… I… I went down on him.”
   Dawn seemed embarrassed but it wasn’t a big deal to me. I shrugged. “Okay…”
   “But…” Dawn shuddered. She looked ready to cry. “I… I didn’t know what I was doing. I’ve talked to the girls and they all just say to suck really hard and to watch your teeth. But I must not have been very good because he didn’t cum. I wasn’t doing it right or something.”
   I frowned and on instinct, I scooted over and wrapped my arms around my friend. Dawn then burst into tears and hugged me tightly, and I just soothed her for a minute while she trembled and fought to regain her composure.
   “Oh, Ben. Please? I don’t want to lose him. I want to be a good girlfriend.”
   “Shhh… relax, Dawn. Of course I’ll teach you. Besides Dawn, you are GORGEOUS. What kind of guy in his right mind wouldn’t want you to give him a blowjob?” I smiled and Dawn managed a smile of her own. And then I pulled back to hold my beautiful best friend at arm’s length.
   “After all,” I began, “We came here to experiment and ‘learn’ with each other, didn’t we?”
   She chuckled and smiled with an aroused gleam in her eye.“I remember last year’s ‘learning’.”
   I grinned lasciviously.“Well this year, you’re going to learn a lot more.”* * *
   Things started off like normal. Dawn and I wound up side-by-side on the blankets while making out. We battled with our tongues and lips and gradually built up our heat to the point where we were sweating inside our clothes.
   So the clothes came off. There wasn’t anything really sexy about it. We weren’t slow-stripping to entice each other. We were just getting naked like normal. Dawn’s boobs HAD gotten much bigger, and when I asked her how big she showed me the 32C tag on her bra. And then I proudly showed her my new seven and a half-inch dick, this time up close and personal.
   Ten seconds after that, her panties came off and it was my turn to gasp and point.
   “Yeah,” Dawn said shyly while I stared straight at her hairless pussy, nothing but smooth skin above her slit. “Dayna talked me into shaving it all off for the summer. You like it?”
   I’d never seen a shaved pussy, but I knew I liked it. I just gulped and nodded my head, already imagining what it would feel like to run my tongue all over her without any hair in the way.
   It was a whole new summer. We were a year older, a year more experienced, and a year hornier than before. Instead of masturbating ourselves and kissing to find our own individual pleasure, we went straight back to making out. And this time, Dawn wasn’t going to stop me when I wanted to touch her.
   From force of habit with Keira and Megan, I rolled Dawn onto her back while I lay beside her. I then hovered over her, softly dipping my tongue into her mouth while my right hand went exploring. And when my palm started rubbing over her firm breasts, Dawn just moaned into my kiss and started thrusting her chest up against my hand.
   But I didn’t spend too much time pawing at her tits. I let my fingertips just barely glide across her bare skin while I tickled various other parts of her torso. And while I explored, I moved my lips to kiss her neck and shoulder and eventually suckle her nipple into my mouth.
   Dawn gasped and moaned again, bringing her hands up to hold my head against her bosom. And as I licked her tenderly, she whimpered happily and urged me to keep going.
   Meanwhile, I started letting my hands roam lower down towards her waist, and this time, when my hands ran down the juncture of her thighs, there were no shorts or panties in my way.
   She was already wet. I glanced down to see the puffy pink as her nether lips were peeking out. And I ran my fingers down and ducked them just a bit inside to get my tips wet before dragging them back up her slit so I could rub her clit. And the moment I touched the sensitive nubbin, my pretty blonde friend’s body went rigid and she gasped in obvious arousal.
   After a little while, Dawn started to beg,“Put your fingers in me.”
   I frowned and said softly.“I don’t want to pop your cherry.”
   She gasped while I kept rubbing her and explained.“My hymen broke a few months ago.”
   I arched an eyebrow and looked at her inquisitively.“Accident?”
   “Uh, not exactly…”
   “Tell me…”
   “Bennn…” she moaned.
   “Tell me. Truth or Truth? I won’t get you off until you tell me,” I threatened in a teasing voice.
   Dawn bucked against my fingers, her jaw quivering as she rotated her hips in a desperate search for that orgasm.“Fine! Dayna popped my cherry, okay?”
   Her answer surprised me so much that I stopped rubbing, and urgently Dawn grabbed my wrist and forced me to keep moving. Obediently, I let her guide two of my fingers to her snatch and I began to rub her labia like I did to Keira while my thumb took over clit duties.
   “Ohhh…” Dawn moaned, and within a minute, her whole body was quaking as her climax passed through her.
   At last, she sighed and sagged back, satisfied for the moment. I pulled my hand up and tasted her fluids. Once again, similar, but slightly different to Keira and Megan, although it WAS closer to Megan’s flavor.
   “So tell me about this cherry-popping thing,” I started when Dawn had calmed down enough.
   She blushed pink but I raised my eyebrows in warning. Then Dawn sighed and explained,“Dayna has some… toys. She was telling me about how sex hurt real bad her first time, and if I was thinking about having sex, I would be better off getting rid of my hymen first. That spell it out enough for you?”
   “Sure.” I leaned back to rest my right forearm and relax a bit. Meanwhile, my naked cock was proudly jutting up into the air.
   “Ben,” Dawn’s voice came very softly. I actually had to strain a bit to hear her. “Can I… will you… will you teach me now?”
   “Are you sure?”
   Dawn nodded and reached her hand out to my erection. I folded my hands behind my head to prop myself up and watch her, and then tentatively Dawn wrapped her hand around my shaft and began to pump me. At least in this, she didn’t seem so nervous.
   “You’ve done this before?” I asked.
   She just nodded.
   “And you can get Mark off with a handjob?”
   She nodded again, all her focus on my prick as she slowly glided up and down.
   “Were you using your hand when you went down on him?”
   She shook her head in the negative. And with a puzzled look on her face, she said,“I thought I could get him off with just my mouth.”
   “You’ll learn. But one way you can do it is just to put your mouth over the mushroom head and suck on it lightly while you give him a handjob. Technically it’s a blowjob since I’m in your mouth, but most of the work is with your hands, like you’re already used to.”
   “Like this?” Dawn bent over, surrounding my head with her mouth so that her lips were tucked just under the ridgeline. And all the while her hand kept its up and down motion. But even then, she wasn’t actually sucking on me.
   “Use your tongue, Dawn. Lick everywhere, but keep it soft. Think of it like your nipples. Just a really big nipple. Lick it like you want to be licked.”
   Instantly, Dawn’s strokes became longer and softer. She darted the tip of it side to side across my pee hole, and she bathed the crown with gentle stroking.
   “Good, good,” I trembled and panted from the pleasure. Here I was, with my beautiful childhood friend sucking my dick. I LOVED my life. And if I just waited, she would probably get me off this way. But Dawn had other ideas.
   She popped off and looked over at the blissful expression on my face.“But Ben. This is really just a handjob with my mouth over your tip. But are you doing to teach me how to really suck you?”
   “Yeah, of course, of course.” I sighed happily and fought to get my brain working. Dawn was really good with her hands, and the knowledge that my lifelong best friend had just taken her mouth of my dick had my mind spinning in circles.
   “Okay. Start by taking as much of me in your mouth as you can… good… Watch the teeth, watch the teeth! Okay, yeah, suck like that. Mmm… Oh, yeah, tongue the bottom… That’s good. That’s good… Okay, Dawn, you need to move your head now.”
   She popped off again.“Move?”
   I panted for a few extra seconds before answering,“Like the way your hand was stroking up and down. You need to move your mouth up and down. You can’t just stay there sucking forever.”
   Dawn scrunched up her face for a second and then exclaimed a long,“Ohhh…”
   I arched my eyebrow.“You weren’t moving your head with Mark?”
   “No. I just thought I was supposed to suck on it.” Dawn’s blue eyes twinkled.
   “And Mark didn’t help you?”
   “No. He didn’t know what to do either. And I think he was still shocked that I was giving him a blowjob.”
   “Oh, okay. Well, let’s try it. I’m sure your friends have talked about a cock being like a popsicle? OH!” I went stiff again as Dawn licked me from base to crown along that big vein running underneath my shaft.
   “Like that?”
   “Yeah, Dawn. JUST like that. And you can’t just shove the whole popsicle in your mouth and just suck on it. You’ve got to move it in and out and lick the whole time.”
   “Okay!” the beautiful 15-year-old blonde said cheerily. And then she went to work.
   I groaned while Dawn started really blowing me. This was going to be easy. Once she got going, Dawn was a natural. She held my hips in her hands and bobbed her head up and down. She sucked, she licked, and she moaned with her own arousal when she realized what kind of affect she was having on me, for I was groaning almost constantly.
   I still gave her a few pointers and told her to back off or suck harder. And as I started getting close, I held her head in my hands, guiding her movements while I simply threw my head back and gave in to the feelings. Dawn was wonderful, and the thought of doing this every day for the next month had me absolutely thrilled beyond belief.
   I didn’t even speak for the last two minutes, just grunting as she brought me closer and closer and closer to explosion. At least I stayed silent until the last ten seconds, when I blurted, “Dawn! I’m going to cum! I’m going to cum!”
   I was expecting her to pull away. After all, last year, she couldn’t even stand to let me cum on her belly, let alone in her mouth. And I figured that she’d given enough handjobs to know what to expect. But instead, Dawn just moaned and sucked me harder.
   That was it, my control was spent, and with a roar, I began filling Dawn’s mouth with hot jism, spurting shot after shot at high velocity.
   I heard Dawn squeak when she felt me splattering the inside of her mouth. And I heard the desperate inhalations through her nose as she fought to breathe while I continued pouring juice out. And just as her eyes started to water and her cheeks threatened to burst, her throat contracted and I saw that she had swallowed a big gulp of my cum.
   Somehow, that sight made me fire off another big burst, and reflexively Dawn swallowed another load. And only then did I finally stop cumming.
   Dawn stayed locked there for a long while, her mouth forming a watertight seal over my prick while she breathed deeply through her nose. I watched her cheeks moving as she seemed to be swirling what remained of my jism around in her mouth. Her eyes kind of pinched as she was clearly evaluating what she thought of the taste. And then at last, she took one more big gulp and then released my prick.
   Coughing slightly, my golden-haired long-distance best friend flopped naked onto her back across the blankets, breathing heavily while our bodies cooled side-by-side. Then still lying flat, Dawn turned her head to me and asked,“Did you like it?”
   I grinned.“Loved it.”
   “Was it better than your other girls?”
   I immediately thought of Keira’s INCREDIBLE blowjobs. That woman was absolutely ravenous for my cum, and she knew just how to get it. “Well…” I began slowly. “To be fair, one of them has a LOT more experience than you.”
   “Oh,” she replied with mild disappointment.
   “But it was still really good. REALLY good, Dawn. Especially since you’ve only tried once before.”
   “Well, we’ve got a whole month to practice, right?” She bubbled.
   I was looking forward to it. I smiled and nodded and then asked,“What about you? How was it for you?”
   “It was… better. Not what I expected. And the taste was… well, I won’t say I LIKE it, but I know guys want you to swallow and I didn’t really mind it.”
   I sighed.“I’ll admit it’s a turn on to see you swallowing. But if you don’t want to, you really don’t have to, Dawn.”
   “I know. That’s why I really like you, Ben. I know you’re okay with whatever I want to do, no pressure.”
   “Of course.” And then impulsively, I rolled over and kissed her. Dawn giggled before throwing herself passionately into returning the kiss, and soon our tongues were darting in and out of each other’s mouths.
   The adrenaline had started pumping in me again, the lust I felt for this beautiful girl stoking inside me, along with… something else.
   There was a fuzzy warmth that I hadn’t felt before with either. I mean, I’d had crushes before. I crushed on Dawn last summer. I crushed on Adrienne for a bit my freshman year. And I definitely felt butterflies in my stomach for Keira. But while I cared about Megan, she didn’t make me feel the way I was currently feeling for the young woman lying beneath me.
   There was a long moment where I just looked into Dawn’s eyes, hovering above her without moving. And she smiled and giggling, she asked, “What?”
   My answer came from inside my gut.“I love you, Dawn.”
   Her eyes flew open wide.“What?” This time, her tone was more of shock.
   I tilted my head and tried to clarify, not certain of my own meaning.“I’m not… not… IN love with you Dawn.” It was true, I didn’t have the butterflies that Keira caused, that rush of excitement and urgent NEED when I was crushing on someone.
   Instead, I felt a blanket of comfortability and warmth. I felt… bonded… to Dawn, like we belonged with each other just the way we were. “I just… I just love you. I want you to know that. I want you to know that you can trust me and that I will always be there for you. I’ll never hurt you. I’ll never make you do anything you don’t want to. And I’ll always want to see you happy. Because I love you, Dawn.”
   She started crying then, smiling and crying and then hugging me tightly to her. Her hands scrabbled at my back as if she was trying to figure out how to hug me even tighter, and eventually she just grabbed my head and pulled me to her for a kiss.
   “I love you too, Ben.”
   And then she kissed me again.
   Wow… I had an INCREDIBLE life.* * *
   At some point, we must have dozed off, exhausted from our frantic makeout session, post-admissions of love. I stirred awake to feel the gentle breeze cooling my slightly overheated body, and I found that a fully naked Dawn was curled up against my side with her head tucked into the crook between my neck and shoulder.
   I stared at her for a long while. She’d been a cute kid; something I’d never really paid much attention to. I mean, I noticed, but it didn’t really affect me one way or the other. Then, that year that I turned 13, I HAD noticed just how pretty she was. And in the next three years, she’d blossomed into a really beautiful young woman: strong cheekbones, slender nose, and gorgeous eye shape. I hummed happily just knowing I was in the presence of such beauty.
   About five minutes later, she woke up as well. I’d been watching her sleep the entire time, and I now watched her long eyelashes batting up and down as her pale blue irises began to focus on the world.
   “Mmm… Hi, Ben,” she murmured.
   “Hi, Dawn,” I replied pleasantly.
   “We fell asleep?”
   “Looks like.” I began to let my left arm stroke her naked back, relishing the feel of her skin beneath my fingers.
   “Mmm…” she sighed while feeling me rubbing her. “What time is it?”
   I glanced at the shadows caused by the overhead sun.“Not yet lunchtime. We’ve got a little while.”
   “Hmm!” she hummed with a little more excitement in her voice. Her hand reached out and began to pet my limp penis, and already I began to feel my blood flowing down to it. “Time enough for another practice session?”
   I started grinning while I felt the pleasant little bursts of energy shooting up through my body. But there was something else I wanted to do first.“Time enough. But I think it’s my turn. Roll over.”
   “Your turn?” Dawn asked in confusion but didn’t resist as I turned her onto her back. Only when I shifted down and flopped onto my stomach so that I could lie down between her legs did Dawn understand. “Ben!” she exclaimed in delight.
   “Like I said. It’s my turn.” And before she could say anything further, I licked her pussy from base to clit.
   “Ohhh…” Dawn moaned, and her fingers tangled in my hair as she held me to her. I chuckled. Clearly, this was one of those things she was ready for. So I took another lick. And then another. And by the time I wrapped my lips around her little love button, the young blonde teen was bucking her hips against my face and urging me on.
   “Oh, Ben! Oh, so good!”
   No instructions from her were necessary. I’d learned quite a bit from Keira and from practicing on Megan.
   “Oh, Ben! I love this! Eat me! Eat me! I can’t get enough!”
   After jabbing my tongue inside her a few times, I moved my oral attention a little further up and added two fingers to the mix.
   “Oh, I love being eaten, Ben! I love it! I love it!”
   From the way she couldn’t keep her hips still, I could certainly believe it. And unlike Megan’s initial reactions, where she was thrilled by my oral attention and simultaneously frightened by the unexpected sensations, Dawn was certainly no stranger to being eaten. I guessed she’d gotten Mark to go down on her before he got her to do the same.
   So now that I was sure Dawn wasn’t a pussy-eaten virgin, I threw all my remaining hesitation to the wind. This wasn’t about introduction or learning anymore, it was just about fun and pleasure. And those were two things I wanted to ensure Dawn received in abundance.
   “Ben! Ben! Yes! Yes!” she screamed.
   Her first orgasm was quick and dirty. Her second lasted a good bit longer. And when her third hit, her thighs clamped down around my head so tightly that I thought I was going to suffocate.
   Only after that third one did I finally wear out, and I dragged myself out of Dawn’s crotch and flopped onto my back beside her, gasping for oxygen and marveling at how soaked my entire face was.
   Rolling on a sea of bliss, Dawn tilted her head and upon seeing the expression on my face, she immediately started laughing. Her laughter was infectious, and a few seconds later I was laughing right along with her, both of us riding the euphoria while panting for air.
   “Ohhh, wow, you really know how to work those orgasms, Dawn. Mark must be pretty good.”
   Still giggling, Dawn looked at me like I was crazy.“Mark’s never done that to me,” she laughed.
   I arched an eyebrow while I was still chuckling.“But you were moaning about how you loved getting eaten.” I snorted and added sarcastically, “That wasn’t your first time, was it?”
   Dawn’s eyes flew open wide and then she stammered, “Oh, well, yeah, I guess it was…” She was obviously lying.
   I fixed her with a look that shut her up cold.“Dawn…” I warned. “You can’t lie to me without me knowing it.”
   Dawn then blushed a deep crimson, and she looked away from me. All the joy left her face and very quickly, she went from rosy pink to ghostly white.
   “Dawn?” I asked with concern this time. My best friend actually looked scared and whatever was going on, I wanted to stop it. “Hey, hey. If something’s bothering you, we can talk about it. You can trust me.”
   With her lower lip trembling, Dawn looked at me with real nervousness and she managed to say quietly,“Okay fine. Mark’s never eaten me out. But that wasn’t my first time.”
   “Your first boyfriend?”
   “No.”
   “Then who?”
   Dawn sighed and averted her gaze.“Promise you won’t hate me?” she asked in a trembling voice.
   “How could I ever hate you? I love you, Dawn, remember?” I reached out and stroked her arm gently.
   Dawn took a deep breath and steeled herself for the rejection she knew was coming.“It was… it was another girl.”
   I perked up hearing that.“Really?” I started grinning at the thought of Dawn, fully naked with another girl’s head between her legs. “Very cool. Who was it?”
   “Ben!” Dawn barked and glared at me. “I can’t tell you that! No names, no identification of our… secret… lovers, remember?”
   “Fine, fine,” I nodded and held up my hand in apology. “But… are you still doing it with her?”
   “Yeah.”
   “Even though you’ve got a boyfriend?”
   “Yeah. She makes me feel really good. But I wasn’t ready to do that yet with Mark.”
   “Hmm,” I shrugged. “I can relate.”
   Now it was Dawn’s turn to arch an eyebrow at me. As usual, she could read me just as well as I could read her, and probably even better. Her intuition served her well as she queried, “Are you still seeing your older woman even though you’ve got a girlfriend?”
   “Yeah,” I replied honestly. “I mean, she doesn’t really count. With K-,” I paused to make sure I didn’t blurt out her name. “There’s no chance at a relationship. She’s older, she’s experienced, and I’m just a kid. She’s not a threat to my girlfriend. So with her, it’s justexperimenting. I’m just learning and having some fun, pretty much like you and me.”
   “And your girlfriend is okay with this?”
   I blushed.“Uh, well, my girlfriend doesn’t really know. I don’t want to scare her. I mean, she’s already worried that she’s not experienced enough to keep me or something. She’s figured out that I’m not a virgin, and she was afraid that she’d lose me if she didn’t put out or didn’t have sex with me well enough.”
   “I get that…” Dawn nodded. “But not because I think Mark has some exotically alluring older woman,” she grinned. “I guess not all men are as lucky as you.”
   “We nice guys don’t date girls just for sex. We actually like hanging out with you. My girlfriend is really smart and she was one of my best friends.”
   Dawn sighed then.“But you’re still having sex with the older woman. Isn’t that cheating? Dating one girl while you’re having sex with someone else?”
   I shrugged.“Do you feel like you’re cheating on Mark with me?”
   “No!” Dawn immediately exclaimed. “We’re different. Ben, you’re my best friend. We’ve… we’ve always kinda… learned… with each other,” Dawn said nervously. “Besides, I’m learning this with you so that I can be better for HIM!”
   I nodded and then asked,“Dawn, are you going to try and steal me away from my girlfriend? You know, after we leave the camp? Demand that I go on dates with you and leave my girlfriend?”
   “No! Of course not.”
   “And I’m not going to get between you and Mark. And my lady friend isn’t going to get between me and Megan. So what’s the big deal?”
   Dawn smiled, resolving her internal issues and deciding that she was alright with the situation.“Okay. That makes sense.”
   “Good. So we’re friends who experiment and learn about sex with each other, the way we’ve always been since you first asked me to show you my wiener when we were in kindergarten.” I grinned. “Now where were we?”
   Dawn sighed and lay her head back down.“I was blissfully thinking about how well you just ate me out.”
   “Oh yeah. And I was daydreaming about you and another girl.” I’d gone limp while eating out Dawn and during the following discussion. But now I felt the fresh stirring in my loins. “Wow… I’d love to see that in person sometime.”
   “Maybe you will…” Dawn giggled cryptically.
   That brought me up short. Turning over, I fixed Dawn with an inquisitive stare and asked,“How? All your friends are in the Bay Area.”
   Dawn clapped her hands over her mouth, as if she’d already said too much. Her eyes canted and she whined, “Ben, please?”
   “Fine, fine,” I held my hands up to show I was stopping, even though my brain was racing through the catalog of female friends we had at the camp. Dawn had some close friends, but I couldn’t figure out which one of them she might be fooling around with. Maybe the cute redhead in the Golden Gate Bridge photo she’d sent me? Or the blonde who looked like Dawn’s twin in front of a rollercoaster at Great America?
   I sighed and pushed the speculation from my mind.“No pressure. I’ll change the subject.”
   “No, I’ll change the subject,” Dawn laughed. “We’ve got just enough time for me to give you another blowjob.”
   Her second attempt was even better than the first.* * *
   “What have YOU two been up to all morning?” Dayna Evans asked when Dawn and I arrived for lunch and hopped onto the bench seats at the long table. Big sisters Dayna and Brandi were seated side-by-side directly across from us, and I glanced next to me to see Dawn blushing a bright pink.
   “Aww… aren’t you two so cute together?” Dayna teased. “Why I could— Oww!”
   Dayna was cut off short and glared at Brandi, who had apparently pinched her. But Brandi was already tucking her black hair with blonde streaks behind her ears while turning up her almond eyes somewhere behind me.
   Dayna herself saw the same thing and immediately shrugged her shoulders to loosen them up and then half-bent over, exposing a bit more of her expansive cleavage spilling over the top of her low-cut shirt.
   Ten seconds later, Brandi smiled and said a friendly,“Hey Greg.”
   Dayna chimed in,“Hey Greg!”
   I didn’t need to turn around. Greg Kinomoto was a tall, well-tanned hunk of a young man who made every girl around camp swoon every single year. His family moved to the mainland from Hawaii and he was an exotic mix of white, Japanese, and a hodgepodge of other ethnicities. In any case, the genetic stewhad produced a man so gorgeous it was actually a little sickening.
   He was also three years older than Brandi and Dayna, but I guess since they’d turned 18 they figured they had a shot at landing him. But Greg just offered a friendly, “Hello” in response and then continued on his way.
   Dayna visibly deflated and my eyes were momentarily drawn the exposed flesh of her big tits. Brandi just sighed and followed Greg with her eyes. I supposed he could do worse. My sister, while not as curvaceous as her best friend, had her own exotically beautiful quality with large, expressive eyes and silky, long hair. The longer you looked at her, the prettier she got. If only she could get Greg to look at her for a bit longer.
   Midway through lunch, I asked if anyone had plans on what to do for the afternoon. The elder sisters wanted to sun themselves now that it was their first chance to really be seen during the prime hours by the lake. But then Alex Regan, a 19-year-old boy with a crush on Dayna, came by to invite us all to play volleyball with them that afternoon. I readily agreed and had a smile on my face for a real chance to show off my new height, and Dawn was happy to come. At first, the girls demurred until Alex started listing the other people he’d already gotten to join, one of whom was Greg Kinomoto. And all of a sudden the elder sisters couldn’t wait to join as well.
   Of course, all four of us playing volleyball made Brooke and DJ suddenly want to play volleyball as well, but then all four of us“big” kids told them they were too young and too short. So after lunch, the 14-year-olds huffed away to find their own entertainment.
   We returned to the cabin to change into swimsuits and my jaw dropped when Dayna came bouncing down the steps in an even skimpier bikini than the one she’d worn the evening before. Her big tits were straining at the fabric, her erect nipples making obvious dents. If I looked at her just right, I could clearly tell what her boobs would look like naked.
   Dawn had to reach out and close my mouth with an outstretched finger while whispering,“Down boy.”
   Dayna pretended not to notice, but she put an extra jiggle into her chest just for me.
   Once we got to the lake, Dayna and Brandi quickly laid out their towels and lay down to catch some rays. I did a little more ogling, of both girls really, when they undid the strings of their tops while lying face down, so there wouldn’t be a tan line.
   Dawn, on the other hand, was a bit more of a tomboy than girly-girl, probably because she was always hanging around with me. So we hooked up with some other teenagers around our age and took repeated trips on the waterslide and rope swing, splashing around the lake and generally having a good time.
   However, Dawn’s girl-side came out after a little while and she went to go join our older sisters sunbathing. I kept hanging out with our 15 and 16-year-old friends, getting into waterfights and generally expending all my excess youthful energy.
   I did glance over every now and again to check on them, and with some alarm I noticed that the three of them were talking animatedly, with Dawn making expressive hand gestures that looked a little too sexual for me to be comfortable with. Was she telling them what we’d been doing that morning? I knew that Dawn would confide in her big sister Dayna. But I wasn’t so sure I wanted my big sister to know what I was sexually up to.
   When I finally returned to the girls, all three of them were on their backs, their bikini tops draped over their breasts in token respect to modesty. I’d had some thoughts to grill Dawn about what she’d been telling our sisters, but then I happened to find a nice vantage point from twenty feet behind them, staring down into all three girls’ upthrust cleavage, and all my worries melted away.
   Then the volleyball game got started up and all four of us went over to join. I was still a little uncoordinated, but at least I now had the height to properly spike the ball. The only problem was that even beyond my three girls, there were also four beautiful young women between the ages of 18 and 21 around me. Said young women jumping up and down while wearing bikinis was rather distracting. And as comfortable as I was talking to most girls, I got absolutely tongue-tied for the first two games.
   You see, resident nice guys don’t have to start conversations because the girls come to them to ask about boys. I was used to chatting with girls my own age who had no interest in me as a man. I was used to friends like Megan and Cassidy and Dawn.
   I was NOT used to beautiful, bikini-clad, slightly-older women flirting with me. I spent most of the first two games blushing and making myself look like an absolute dork. They quickly lost interest in me after that, an outcome that Dawn seemed mysteriously pleased with.
   In any case, once the older girls stopped flirting and I became accustomed to seeing the bouncing cleavage, my hard-on went away and I started to play better.
   Besides, as promised, Greg Kinomoto came to join in time for the third game, which set all the girls atwitter and took any focus off of me. But five minutes later, Felicia Clarkson, the 20-year-old widely accepted“babe” of the last couple years at camp joined as well. She and Greg immediately began paying a lot of attention to each other, which put a damper on the elder girls’ moods.
   Later, we all returned to the cabins to clean up before dinner. Dawn squeezed my hand and kissed my cheek before she went with Dayna to their family’s cabin. Brandi took advantage of my distraction to dart inside our cabin and declare dibs on the shower.
   Then, while I was catching up on the reading I couldn’t do in the van on the drive up, Brooke sneaked into the cabin and swiped the shower just after Brandi finished. I banged on the door and bitched her out until mom told me to cool it. So I steamed and had to wait even longer for my turn.
   Somehow, I still beat Dawn in exiting the cabins. I supposed the Evans girls were just taking really long showers. And five minutes after me, Dawn came out with freshly washed hair and we chatted for the little while we had left before dinner.
   After dinner was more vacation hanging out. Some of the families started a marshmallow roast. I spent half the time trying not to fireball mine while Dawn patiently churned out perfect s’more after perfect s’more. My parents even asked me to help the twins with theirs, but after flaming two of them Dawn took over and both Eden and Emma happily accepted the golden-browned confections while teasing me that my girlfriend was the better cook. And the whole while, I actually TALKEDto my parents and siblings. I mean, when we were at home, we talked, but there was always work or school or something else to worry about the next day. Here, at camp, we had nothing to worry about and nothing to do but bond with our family members.
   The end of the night found Dawn and I laying out on a big rock by the lake, one that most people used as an eight-foot diving platform. But this night we were both fully dressed and staring into the sky, Dawn lying perpendicular to me with her head resting on my belly.
   We mapped out constellations and stargazed for a while, the crystal clear sky a wonderful change of pace after the smog of Southern California. We observed the celestial bodies and then I made a crack about Dawn’s celestial body, to which she giggled agreeably. And then to finish off the night, we kissed and we kissed and we kissed until our lips were sore. And then we said our goodnights.
   Thus ended a typical day at camp.* * *
   The rest of the week followed the same pattern. In the mornings, Dawn and I would hike out, usually to our“spot” but not always. There, we’d get naked and explore the wonders of our bodies with each other. I experimented and learned all of Dawn’s erogenous zones and brought her to repeated climaxes. She seemed to have especially intense orgasms after I ran my fingers over her anus, but it frightened her and she ordered me never to try putting a finger or anything else inside it. She also started to get proficient at blowing me and she was very insistent about learning how to swallow my spending without choking or coughing.
   In the afternoons, we’d meet up with friends and siblings; sometimes hanging out around the camp and sometimes hiking out to the river areas or up into the mountains. Twice we even brought along the twins and some of their little 10-year-old friends, taking them on short trips to introduce them to the usual trails.
   Evenings were marshmallow roasting, stargazing, or just plain chatting. Brooke and DJ started to tag along with Dawn and me, the younger girls asking us all sorts of questions about the stars, the trees, and the various animals that were probably out in the woods. I tried to scare them a couple of times with stories about animals and psycho killers dragging little girls away, but both jaded 14-year-olds just laughed me off.
   I was happy. It was a vacation, and I rather enjoyed my life. Sure, I missed talking with Megan and I missed my special times with Keira. After all, the previous two weeks of summer had pretty much been non-stop blowjobs and sex.
   But here, away from school, homework, contracting jobs, or anything else, I was totally relaxed. I was getting off multiple times a day with a beautiful girl who I loved almost like a family member (and in an important way, very much NOT like a family member). My afternoons were spent playing around without a care in the world. And my evenings were spent re-connecting with my family and with the Evanses. Brandi was less condescending. Brooke was less annoying. And the twins were as sweet as ever, innocently taking turns sitting in big brother’s lap.
   There was only one thing I really missed: actual penetrating sex. But that was about to change.SATURDAY, JULY 8, 2000
   “Ohhh… just like that, Dawn… mmm… Damn! You’re getting GOOD!.. Ohhh… oh, Dawn… Dawn! You’re gonna make me cum! I’m gonna cum! Get ready!.. OHHH!!!”
   I held Dawn’s head in my hands while I bucked my hips against her mouth. She was immediately swallowing while I jetted several wads of spunk down her throat, and her blue eyes were rolled up to watch the contortions in my face as I felt that blissful release.
   But the instant I was done sperming her mouth, I rolled Dawn’s naked body onto her back and started kissing her before lowering myself down and latching myself onto her upright breasts. They were so firm, if I didn’t know any better I might have thought they were fake based on my “research”. Ah, the wonders of a not-yet-16-year-old body. Soon, Dawn was moaning as much as I’d been groaning a minute earlier while I suckled her tits and sawed two fingers in and out of her pussy.
   Five minutes later, I brought her to a small climax with my fingers, and then Dawn kissed me and asked softly,“Please, Ben?”
   I nodded readily and then moved down to stick my head between her legs. And then I spent the next ten minutes lavishing her with three more orgasms, each one more powerful than the last. In the end, the beautiful young blonde was as limp as a de-boned fish, breathing shallowly and grinning goofily.
   Dawn was still panting and staring off into the sky when she sighed in a soft voice,“Ben?”
   “Yeah?” I was wiping my face off with my own hands and then drying my hands on the towel we were lying on.
   “Tomorrow, for my birthday,” Dawn took a deep breath. “I want you to take my virginity.”
   My eyes popped open and I quickly rotated my head to hers with a stunned expression on my face. It took another thirty seconds, but eventually Dawn turned her face to mine with a big smile.
   “Mom already knows. She’s given me permission.” Dawn smiled. “And we don’t need to worry about condoms or anything. After seeing that kiss you gave me last year, Mom put me on the pill the day we got home. I think she’s surprised I waited this long.”
   “Are you sure, Dawn?”
   “More than anything.”
   “But what about Mark?”
   She shrugged.“He’s just a guy. I mean, I like him as a boyfriend, but I don’t love him. So it’s not like I really want to give him something special like that. But I DO love you, Ben. It’s just right. And I don’t want to be all scared and nervous my first time. I trust you. I’m not nervous with you. So when the time comes for me and Mark, I’ll be ready. I’ll know what to do.”
   “So you’ll have sex with him when you get back?”
   Dawn shrugged.“As long as I like it. And based on everything else you’ve done to me and everything Dayna talks about, I’m pretty sure I’ll like it.” She grinned. “Mark won’t even know the difference. I already told him I accidentally broke my hymen last year. Besides, we’ve got three weeks to go.Except for my period, that gives you lots of time to teach me, and then I can teach him.”
   I blinked, suddenly feeling some pressure on my chest.“Wow. Uh, okay… I guess I’ve got some planning to do.”
   “You don’t have to go out of your way to make things romantic, Ben. I want this. I want you. We’re friends. And having you is all the romance I really need.”
   Despite having cum recently, I found my dick was rock hard again at the prospect of having full intercourse with my beautiful friend. I glanced down at it and then asked in a shyly hopeful voice,“Do we have to wait until tomorrow?”
   Dawn laughed and then bent her head over my new erection, taking me into her hand.“Yes. We’re waiting for my birthday. But don’t worry. I think I’m getting pretty good at getting you off with my mouth.”* * *
   Dinner was a strange affair. Every time I looked at Dawn, I started fantasizing about how she would look lying beneath me, skewered on my prick. She seemed to be thinking the same thing, and we both kept getting funny smiles whenever our eyes met.
   But to my surprise, Dayna was also eyeballing me rather obviously. Greg Kinomoto even passed the table once and Dayna still seemed to be evaluating me like a piece of meat. I got the distinct impression she knew exactly what Dawn and I would be up to the following morning.
   And then when I got up to play dutiful son and bus the tables, I was intercepted on my way back by Deanna Evans, Dawn’s mom. “Ben, can we stop by the bathrooms for a moment?”
   Suddenly nervous, I gulped and nodded. Dawn had claimed her mom had already approved of what we were going to do, but it was possible she’d been lying about that and I suddenly felt like I’d gotten my hand caught in the cookie jar.
   But once we were out of earshot, Mrs. Evans said the last thing I was expecting to hear.“Ben, our cabin will be empty tomorrow morning. No one will disturb you until lunchtime.”
   I blinked twice before the ramifications of her words began to sink in.“Uh, thanks…” I managed to mumble.
   She smiled warmly and raised her hand up to my shoulder.“Be gentle with her, okay? Make it good for her.”
   Of course!“I will,” I said seriously.
   “And if you think she’s not ready, don’t pressure her, okay?”
   Obviously. This was DAWN.“Absolutely. You can trust me, Mrs. Evans.”
   “I know I can,” Dawn’s mother sighed. “That’s why Dawn has been telling me what you two have been doing every step of the way. I only wish there was someone like you when Dayna was her age. Would have saved me a lot of worry. I STILL don’t know when that girl lost her virginity.”
   I wasn’t sure how to respond to that, so I just kept my mouth shut.
   Mrs. Evans seemed to realize she’d said too much and she smiled at me with a trace of embarrassment. “Well, run along back to the table.”
   “Yes, ma’am.”
   Dawn shot me a look that asked‘What-was-that-all-about?’
   I just shrugged, mentally distracted. I had some planning to do.SUNDAY, JULY 9, 2000
   “Mom, what happened to those candles you kept by the bathtub?”
   “They’re in one of the drawers, why?”
   “Oh, nothing…”
   I was a decent liar. I could keep a straight face around my friends, no problem. I could tell my female friends they looked fine when they asked if their jeans made them look fat. I could utter a‘no comment’ with a completely straight face.
   But not around my mom.
   “Ben…” She warned. I realized I had the exact same tone when I’d called Dawn on her lie a week ago.
   I sighed.“It’s for Dawn, okay? I just wanted to do something a little extra special. It’s her birthday and all.”
   “Oh that’s right!” Mom snapped her fingers in realization. “Deanna told me last week that Dawn was going to do this.”
   I blinked twice.“Last week?” I croaked. Did my mom know what was going on? Did my mom know I was going to take Dawn’s virginity before I did?
   “Yeah,” Mom confirmed. “Oh, don’t worry about those candles, Ben. I’ve got better ones in my suitcase. And you’ll need a lighter. Oh, and have you thought about a CD?”
   “Mooommmmm!” I whined. The last thing I needed was my own mother helping me plan a seduction. Despite the fact that there was no one else around us, I was seriously embarrassed.
   “You just want to set the right mood, Ben. You’ve got to think and plan.”
   “I know that.” But I hadn’t known. I’d only gotten as far as the candles. How much forethought do you really expect from a barely 16-year-old?
   “Look, just let me help you out,” Mom reasoned. “Go take a fresh shower and I’ll put everything together. And when you all go down for breakfast, I’ll go and set it all up. Deanna said their cabin would be empty, right?”
   I rolled my eyes and shook my head in disbelief. Instead of being upset by the knowledge that their children were becoming sexually active, the moms seemed happy to be included in the planning. And with both mothers and Dawn’s older sister already aware and involved in Dawn’s deflowering, I was beginning to feel like I was being used for my dick. Like I was just a minor part of the whole ceremony. I sighed. “Fine, Mom.”* * *
   “Ben, are you nervous?”
   I blinked twice.“No, why?”
   “Because you’re squeezing my hand awfully hard.”
   “Oh, sorry!” I immediately relaxed my grip, and Dawn beamed at me.
   “I thought you’ve done this a few times before,” she teased.
   “I have! I have! It’s just…” I sighed and looked adoringly at my pretty friend. “I just want to make sure you’re happy.”
   “I’m happy I’m doing this with you.” Dawn stopped us and laid a fat kiss on my lips. “Just relax. I’m relaxed. Shouldn’t I be the one who’s nervous?”
   “From what I hear, you’ve had months to get used to the idea.” I said nervously. “I just got blindsided yesterday.”
   “Well, I’m sure we’ll do just fine. It’sus, Ben. How can it not be wonderful?” And with that, we arrived and Dawn stopped just outside her cabin to hug me and take a deep breath at my neck.
   “Mmm… you smell good,” she said. “Did you take an extra shower this morning?”
   “Uh, yeah. Just trying to make every little detail right,” I stammered nervously.
   “That’s sweet,” she said, in a voice that was even sweeter.
   I held up one hand.“OK, now just wait here a minute. I have to run inside and get everything set up.”
   Dawn canted her head.“Set up? I told you I didn’t need anything romantic.”
   “Well, just trust me, okay?”
   “Alright.”
   I hurried inside to find my mom had set things up just as she’d told me. The candles were in place around the bedroom, the lighter on the table and the CD-boombox ready to go. I darted around lighting up the candles and adjusting the blinds, and then I started up the CD.
   I’d half-expected some archaic jazz or something equally… OLD… from my mom. But some nice soft-pop started coming through the speakers and then I saw the CD jewel case beside the boombox, with “Dayna’s Romance Mix IV” on the label.
   I grinned and then finally went to retrieve Dawn. She cocked her ears as she entered in through the front door and realized I had some music going, and then she gasped as she saw the candles while we entered into the girls’ bunkroom. Dayna’s and DJ’s bunks were a mess but Dawn’s was neatly made with fresh sheets. And before Dawn could completely focus in and start critiquing the room or burbling how it wasn’t necessary, I took her into my arms and kissed her fiercely.
   Somehow, while our lips were locked together, we managed to shuffle over to the bed and we stopped when Dawn’s calves hit the bedframe. She paused to breathe, “Oh, Ben…” and then were kissing again as I gently lowered her onto her back.
   I don’t think our lips broke apart for the next ten minutes, save for the two brief separations necessary for the removal of our shirts. It wasn’t as easy as you might think. While Dawn and I spent a lot of time naked around each other, we usually stripped ourselves for efficiency and not seduction.I had to call on every memory I had with Keira and Megan to remember just how to pull off a girl’s clothing without making it awkward.
   But soon enough, we were both fully naked. And my bare cock was pressed between our bellies while my balls were draped directly over the top of her pussy. Our skin was heating up and we both luxuriated in the feel of each other’s bodies in such an intimate position. We were almost there.
   But I REALLY wanted to make this right. I’d put tremendous pressure on myself to make this a wonderful experience for Dawn, and already I was formulating my oral strategy for getting her primed for the big event. So while soft piano notes and a sweet girl’s voice crooned about love in the background, I began kissing my way down the now 16-year-old beauty’s body.
   I played Dawn like a fine-tuned instrument. My week’s experimentation had identified her best spots for fondling and her likes and dislikes. So after a few minutes of caressing and suckling and rubbing, I finally got my face down to Dawn’s juncture and I took a lick of her extremely soaked pussy.
   Instantly, Dawn tensed up as she felt that first lick. She shook her head and started trying to grab my hair.“No Ben. I can’t wait any longer. Get up here and FUCK me!”
   What I should have said was,“Patience. It will be worth it.” Keira had taught me that when a woman is begging to be fucked, you can usually wait for two more pleas before you actually have to go up and fuck her. Drawing it out and building up her anticipation would always result in an orgasm that was well worth the delay.
   But Dawn was smoking hot. My 16-year-old mind was already sinking beneath the control of my lust. And my hormones were in overdrive. So when this pretty girl ordered me to fuck her, I simply moved up her body, spread her legs to the side, and then nudged my cockhead into her folds.
   “Yes, Ben! YES!” Dawn moaned as I began to stretch her entrance. And then she exhaled loudly and groaned ecstatically as I started sinking into her slowly.
   I didn’t want to go slowly. I wanted to FUCK! In hindsight, I probably should have jerked myself off or something earlier just to get it out of the way and give myself a little more patience. But I hadn’t, and so once I felt the first inch get firmly rooted in the right place, I slammed forward with all the force I had in my hips.
   DAMN! Dawn was TIGHT! So even with my toes scrabbling against the mattress and me focusing all my weight through my crotch, I could only manage a steady push that took a full two minutes before I was fully lodged inside Dawn’s once virginal pussy.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” Dawn panted. Her chest was heaving up and down, pushing her tits into me while she weakly held my arms. I think she’d been holding her breath for the entire time I was entering her, and for a minute it felt like all energy had left her body.
   “So full…” she sighed.
   My tenderness returned now that I was balls deep inside a beautiful girl, my lust sated for the moment. I turned my head and kissed her neck, cheek, and ears before turning her head to mine and giving my new lover a passionate kiss on the lips. She moaned into my mouth, and something instinctive triggered inside of me, because without forethought I MOVED.
   Pushing a little harder, I pressed Dawn into the mattress a half-inch before pulling back a few inches and carving my cock in a big counter-clockwise motion, stretching her out a bit. The pretty blonde teen gasped in surprise at the sensations, her eyes glittering while she smiled at me.“Oh, I love this, Ben. I love this! It feels GOOD. Oh, Ben. I love it…”
   I grinned happily. And then she locked her gaze onto my eyes and in a husky voice, growled,“Fuck me, Ben.”
   I did.
   We had sex three times in the next hour and a half; the interludes filled with cuddling and whispered giggling from both of us. I managed to hold out the first time just long enough for Dawn to have her first coital orgasm, crying“Yes! Yes! Yes!” just as I began to fill her with her very first scalding bath of hot cum.
   I held out much longer the second time while teaching Dawn to ride me. She bucked and heaved her way to three orgasms before I nutted into her again.
   And then the third time was a virtual marathon. We started off doggy. But while I absolutely LOVED the position with Keira while staring at her jiggly ass being split by my pole, I found it emotionally lacking with Dawn. I couldn’t look my erstwhile best friend in her eyes. I couldn’t feel that warm bond of love and affection. And Dawn sensed the disconnect as well, softly asking to change positions after only a few minutes.
   For the next ten minutes, we were truly making love. My thrusts were slow and full. Her hips rolled to meet me, but we never came together with heavy force nor meaty thumps. We simply stroked together. I think I actually spent more time focused on kissing her than I was on pumping my cock.
   By the end, we were soaking wet with sweat, bangs plastered to foreheads and rivers drizzling down our backs. Despite our youthful energy, both our bodies were tiring. But Dawn still had that sparkle in her crystal clear blue eyes. I still had fiery passion in my kiss. And in the end, when our impending orgasms finally sped us up into frantic thrusts and lunges, Dawn clutched me to her and wailed,“I LOVE YOU, BEN!”
   “I LOVE YOU, TOO!” I bellowed and then turned to kiss her a final time. And a second after our tongues touched, we climaxed together.
   Dawn’s body locked up and arched so suddenly that she nearly threw me off. I was already blasting the first shot deep into her pussy, and after she dislodged me back a few inches, I rammed forward just in time for the second shot to follow after the first. Dawn hummed through her nose and into my mouth, but she never broke our kiss. And our bodies thrashed against each other while we rode the cresting waves of orgasm higher and higher until the bliss carried our minds far away.
   And as we cooled down and Dawn clutched my head against her neck, she said again,“I love you.”
   Chapter 4: Summer Camp IISUNDAY, JULY 9, 2000
   My whole body was humming. I collapsed on top of my beautiful blonde lover, all of my weight bearing down on her naked chest. But she didn’t seem to mind. Instead of pushing me off her, she held me even tighter, clutching my head against her neck.
   “I love you,” Dawn said wondrously.
   “Nngh!”
   The moan startled both Dawn and I. Neither one of us had made the sound, and already I was craning my head around while Dawn peeked over my shoulder. And then we both saw that the bedroom door was ajar, with Dayna kneeling on the floor staring at us through the opening, her face flushed with arousal as she panted in what looked like the aftermath of her own orgasm. And even more surprising to me, Brandi was standing just behind her.
   Startled, both Dawn and I rolled hurriedly and tugged at the blankets to cover our nakedness. Dawn screeched in panic,“DAYNA!”
   “Wow…” Dayna just said wide-eyed as she calmly got to her feet and walked into the room. “You two were AMAZING!”
   Brandi was still standing wide-eyed in the doorway with her hand jammed into her own shorts. I pulled the blankets around me even tighter and glared at my big sister.“Brandi! What the hell are you doing here?”
   It wasn’t that I was embarrassed. I’d just had one of the greatest sexual experiences of my life with a beautiful girl; there was no shame in that. But I was surprised to be spied on. As far as I knew, I’d never had sex in front of an audience. And if it had been up to me, I would have liked to spend a lot more time cuddling with Dawn in the aftermath.
   But despite the heat in my voice, Brandi didn’t even react. She just stared numbly at me, an expression of disbelief on her face.
   Meanwhile, Dayna was holding Dawn’s hands. The blanket had slipped down while Dawn sat up, revealing her firm tits. Dayna was rubbing the backs of Dawn’s hands soothingly, but Dawn still seemed rattled. “You weren’t supposed to be WATCHING us! Mom promised no one would disturb us until lunchtime!”
   “I couldn’t help it,” Dayna said apologetically. “I had to see what itshould have been like, to lose your virginity with someone you cared about, instead of with a fumbling jock in the backseat of a car. And it looked so wonderful!”
   Dawn smiled at that and turned her face to me.“Yeah…”
   “And three times!” Dayna grinned.
   “Hmph,” Dawn grumbled. “If you hadn’t interrupted I might have made it FOUR.”
   “Hey, I came twice already myself. You two were just so busy you didn’t notice me.” The eldest Evans daughter sighed and absentmindedly palmed her own breast through her halter-top. “You are SOOO lucky to have Ben, sis.”
   Dayna then turned to my sister, who was still in shock and standing in the doorway.“Brandi, why couldn’t YOU have been a boy?”
   That question out of left field seemed to finally shake my older sister from her trance. She turned her head to her best friend and screwed up her face.“What?”
   Dayna just giggled, and Brandi finally realized she had a hand in her shorts and she blushed fiercely before stepping into the room.
   I glared at my sister. I wouldn’t have minded a fourth attempt myself. “What are you DOING here, Brandi?”
   She winced and darted her eyes to Dayna.“I didn’t know. Dayna just told me there was something in the cabin I just HAD to see. I had no idea. Have you and Dawn been doing… each other… long?”
   Dawn looked over and beamed“My first time!” at the same time Dayna volunteered “Her first time!”
   Brandi’s eyes went wide and then she stared at me like I was an alien. “That… that wasn’t YOUR first time, was it Ben? You really looked like you knew what you were doing.”
   “Uh, no,” I shrugged, feeling guilty for some reason. Like I knew I wasn’t SUPPOSED to be having as much sex with as many girls as I could.
   “Megan?” my sister queried.
   “Actually, no,” I admitted.
   Brandi’s eyes got even bigger and she started shaking her head. “Some OTHER girl? Or girls? Wow… How the hell did I not notice? My little brother… You grew up Ben. I never thought it would happen. Every time I look at you I just see the little brat who annoyed the hell out of me. But you grew up.” Brandi looked amazed, as if only now realizing I’d gained more than seven inches in the past year.
   Dawn then took charge of the situation.“Well, this is MY birthday and my special occasion. You two have spied on us long enough. Now GET OUT!” Dawn smiled. Her voice had picked up in volume but there was no anger in her voice.
   Dayna just popped her eyebrows and then pinched her lips together, bowing her head apologetically. Then she grabbed Brandi’s elbow and pulled my sister out of the room, closing the door behind them.
   Immediately, Dawn glanced at the clock and then turned to me, rolling her eyes.“I knew it… I knew she was going to spy on us.”
   She giggled and then my blonde angel touched her hand to my face.“Now, we’ve got almost an hour and a half. What do you say we try for four?”
   At lunch, my mom gave me a sly smile. Perhaps it had something to do with the way Dawn was absolutely glowing and clutching my arm happily.
   Mrs. Evans also flashed me a smile, but Dayna and Brandi both looked apologetic. I gathered that they’d gotten a verbal lashing from their respective mothers. But then Greg Kinomoto walked by and the elder girls’ focus went with him. Dayna looked horny enough to jump him right there in the dining hall.
   The rest of our families were oblivious. I certainly found it hard to look Mr. Evans in the eye, and thankfully I didn’t need to.
   After lunch, we had a small birthday celebration for Dawn, complete with cake and candles. But it wasn’t anything over the top. Dawn was the only one of us with a July birthday and she usually didn’t want to make a big deal out of it. Afterwards, I suggested that the two of us slip away to try for numbers five and six, but Dawn told me she was feeling pretty sore down there, so we just joined our families in all going down to the lake to play and hang out.
   It was only when I settled myself into a lounge chair that I realized what a toll the morning’s activities had taken on my body. It was the same for Dawn, and after twenty minutes, we both fell asleep.
   I woke up just once to find my mom slathering sunblock on me lest I burn, and then she told me to turn over while my dad pulled over one of the big umbrellas for shade. I looked to my side to see Dawn groggy as well, with Dayna similarly applying a healthy coating of sunblock to her sister, and then I passed out again.
   Much later, when I awoke I found that it was just me and the girls. Dawn was still asleep, but Dayna and Brandi were up and talking. The rest of our families had gone off for their own various afternoon activities.
   We were all shaded by two umbrellas now, and I saw that Dayna and Brandi had pulled their lounge chairs closer in to take advantage of the cover. They must have gotten enough of a tan for one afternoon. And from their new proximity, I could hear them talking with each other.
   I had just barely cracked one eye open when Dayna softly asked Brandi,“Did you know Ben was that big?”
   My eye flew up for a second, and then on instinct I shut it and decided to pretend I was still asleep. But even with my eyes closed, my ears were wide open.
   “No,” Brandi said with amazement. “The last time I saw his dick was when he was fourteen and his towel slipped coming out of the bathroom. Of course he was limp and the thing looked so tiny. I never really thought he’d… well… become a MAN.”
   “Ohhh… it was so beautiful… What I wouldn’t give to suck it,” Dayna sighed dramatically.
   “Dayna!” Brandi hissed. “That’s my brother!”
   “I’m sorry, I can’t help it. Your little brother’s got abeautiful dick. I’m so jealous of Dawn right now. I haven’t gotten laid in three months and she’s got access to that weapon whenever she wants!”
   “What? You’re not getting enough orgasms on this trip between the two of us?” Brandi whined.
   “You guys are great. But that’s the point; you’re not actually ‘guys’. And fingers and dildoes just can’t replace a good dick.” Dayna sighed. “You think she’d let me borrow him?”
   Brandi snorted.“Dayna! You can’t ask her that! They LOVE each other. You heard them say it and we can both see it. Don’t even think of messing with that.”
   “What? It’s not like he’s her boyfriend. She’s dating Mark and you said he’s got this Megan girl back home.”
   “Doesn’t matter. Dawn and Ben are… well, they’rethem. I’d say they’re practically siblings, but then of course there’s the sex thing.” Brandi sighed. “Just… Dayna, you KNOW you shouldn’t.”
   “Fine…” Dayna moaned. “But right now I’m still jealous her best friend is a guy. Seriously, sometimes I wish you’d been born with a dick, Brandi.”
   “Eww.”
   The sudden thought of Brandi with a dick caused me to flinch uncontrollably, which made my arm move. And my arm moving across the vinyl lounge chair made a scraping sound.
   “Shh. He’s waking up,” Dayna hissed.
   Everything went silent for a long twenty seconds, and then I decided they weren’t going to continue talking about me. So I just went through the motions of getting up, and by the time I opened my eyes, Dayna and Brandi were just laying back with their sunglasses obscuring their eyes. If I didn’t know any better, I might think they were asleep as well.
   I sat up and swung my legs over the edge towards the three girls laid out in a row beside me, Dawn still breathing shallowly with her eyes closed. I worked the kinks out of my neck and then paused to ogle all the wonderful teenage flesh before me from three girls in skimpy bikinis.
   Then Dayna turned to me, leaning forward so that her tits bulged out of her too-small bikini top. My eyes yo-yoed down and then back up to her face while she tilted her sunglasses up on her forehead.“Morning, sleeping beauty. You wear yourself out this morning?”
   Cockily, I grinned and said,“Nah. Just saving up my energy to go another four times tonight.”
   Dayna’s eyes popped open and even Brandi turned to stare at me. But I just bent to kiss Dawn’s cheek and then got up to go refresh myself in the lake.
   It turned out, I didn’t get to go four more times that evening. We didn’t even get to have sex ONE more time. Our parents didn’t want us hiking away while the sun was coming down, and with no further promises of an empty cabin, we resigned ourselves to planning for a hike out the next morning.
   Still, we got to lay together on the big diving-platform rock, staring at the stars while holding hands tightly. And every few minutes or so, we would turn and look into each other’s eyes, coming together for a tender kiss.
   There were no more verbal expressions of love. We didn’t need them. I felt it in my bones. I felt it in her kiss. And I knew that no matter where our lives took us, when we were old and gray Dawn Evans and I would still be very special to each other.MONDAY, JULY 10, 2000
   “Didn’t you get enough this morning?” Dawn giggled and twisted her body in the water, pulling her ass away from my hand and splashing me at the same time. “You came three times!”
   I sputtered for a second to breathe after the splash and blinked the water out of my eyes.“What? Two days and you’re already tired of me?” I complained.
   Dawn giggled and swam back to me, treading water just enough to lean in and kiss me.“Never.”
   “Glad to hear it,” I grinned. Then we both continued swimming to the pier and the hauled ourselves out. Summer or not, the lake was fed by snowmelt and the water was COLD.
   From our vantage point, we could see Eden and Emma playing on the rope swing with a few other kids their age. Further away, Brooke and DJ were with a bigger crowd playing Ultimate Frisbee. I looked over to my best friend and without words, Dawn and I decided to go join the frisbee game. We’d had enough waterplay for now.
   Without needing to think about it, Dawn and I slipped our hands together as we walked along the pier and headed for the lounge chairs and our clothes. For some reason, the touch of each other’s palm against our own made us pause and look at each other, goofy grins on our faces. I wondered for the umpteenth time if this was what falling in love was like.
   I’d meant what I said earlier. I loved Dawn, but I really wasn’t sure if I was “in love” with her. I wasn’t being swept away in a whirlwind of passion. I wasn’t being driven by my lust. And my heart didn’t ache or anything when we were apart. I simply enjoyed every second I was near her and accepted it when I wasn’t, since I knew I’d be seeing her again. I didn’t have that puppy love that my friends all talked about. Dawn was just… Dawn.
   “This is fun, isn’t it?” she said, holding up our hands. I felt a pleasant little buzz go through me just at her touch.
   “Yeah, I’m certainly having more fun this summer than ever!” I leered.
   Dawn giggled and stopped halfway down the pier.“Not THAT! Well… yes… that,” she mused. “But more than that. I just feel… happier! Bouncier!”
   I dropped my voice.“It’s amazing how a good orgasm can change your life.”
   Dawn giggled.“Don’t you EVER think of anything besides sex?”
   “Sure… I picture you just lying there naked next to me… and THEN we have sex!” I grinned.
   “Ben!”
   I let my face soften and my eyes opened up while I looked deeply into Dawn’s eyes. “And I love just standing here with you. Even doing nothing, I love just standing here and holding your hand.”
   “Mmm…” Dawn sighed and smiled at me, feeling my affection washing over her like a warm blanket. And then squeezing my hand, she tugged us into walking again.
   Heading over to the lounge chairs, we came across our parents relaxing as well as Brandi, conspicuously without Dayna by her side. Curious, Dawn asked the question first,“Hey Brandi, where’s Dayna?”
   Without even looking, my sister pointed down the line of lounge chairs.“Trying to seduce Greg.” Brandi took a deep breath and then sighed. “I warned her that he officially is hooked up with Felicia now, as of yesterday. But she insisted on making him see the error of his ways.”
   Dawn and I were putting our clothes on over our suits, but we both looked over to see Greg reclining on a lounge chair a hundred yards away from us across the curve in the lake, wearing a very short, very tight pair of swim trunks that revealed his sculpted body complete with well-defined muscles. Dayna was sitting on the lounge chair beside him, giggling constantly and leaning dangerously far forward to expose her tits while threatening to topple over.
   Dayna was working pretty hard to seduce the handsome man. To her credit, Greg certainly looked interested and both attractive young people were smiling and chatting amiably while Greg’s entire head went up and down as he checked out all that Dayna was offering him. I had to admit, Dayna was pretty enough now that I’d hold her as an equal to Felicia now.
   “Uh-oh,” Brandi sighed. “Here comes Felicia.”
   I turned my head and sure enough, the goddess herself, Felicia Clarkson, sauntered over from the main lodge with a towel over her shoulder. I couldn’t help but let my own jaw drop from how good she looked in her bikini. But then Felicia saw her new boyfriend flirting with Dawn’s older sister, and the goddess picked up her pace a bit.
   A minute later, Greg was sitting up straight trying to explain himself while Dayna played innocent. Their voices carried towards us but we couldn’t make out the words. Felicia just barked something at Dayna and all of a sudden, Greg was holding his hands up as if to separate the two girls. The little argument was settled when Greg slipped his arm around Felicia’s waist and she sank beside him on the lounge chair.
   Dayna shrugged as if she didn’t care, and stood up to take her leave. She then tossed her hair back and reached up with both hands to re-tie her scrunchy, a motion that thrust her Double-D’s forward as if to show off what he’d be missing. And then with a graceful pivot, Dayna turned and began striding back towards us.
   A minute later, she came up, her feet stomping into the sand with intensity.“Fucking whore,” she spat.
   “Dayna!” Her mom rebuked from her chair just a few feet away.
   “Sorry, mom,” the beautiful teenager apologized and then sighed.
   “Told you he wasn’t worth it,” Brandi reasoned. “He’s too gorgeous. Men like that are just too shallow to appreciate us.”
   Dayna shook her head.“That wouldn’t stop you from going out with him if he asked you.”
   Brandi blushed and turned her head away.
   I arched an eyebrow at my sister.“Don’t you have a boyfriend back home?”
   Dayna chimed in,“What happens at camp, stays at camp.” Brandi just blushed again. I certainly couldn’t disagree with that motto.
   “Doesn’t matter anyways. Greg’s not going out with either of us.” Dayna just exhaled and rolled her eyes. “I don’t see why we were hung up on him in the first place. He’s nothing special. He got hard staring at my tits and even Ben has a bigger dick than him.”
   “Dayna!” Deanna Evans rebuked again.
   “What? The kids aren’t around or anything,” Dayna turned and shrugged. Meanwhile, I started blushing beet red. And then I realized that Dayna’s reference to “kids” no longer included me or Dawn. I felt kinda good at that, being part of the “older” crowd now.
   Dawn stepped in.“We’re going to go play frisbee. Wanna come?”
   “Sure,” Dayna sighed and looked to Brandi for confirmation, who was already sitting up and reaching for her tennis shoes. Then she glanced at me and Dawn, where Dawn had taken my hand to lead me off towards the game.
   “Stupid camp,” Dayna moaned. “A month up here and all the cute boys are taken.”TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2000
   I stopped and kissed Dawn just before we went into our respective cabins, feeling a deep-rooted satisfaction in my gut. Cumming three times in one morning will make you feel that way.
   Dawn giggled as she deliberately snaked her tongue between my lips, making sure I could taste my own sperm deposit from that third orgasm where she’d had me pull out and spurt in her mouth. I wasn’t exactly fond of the flavor, but since Dawn always wanted to kiss me, I thought it best to let her do her thing and keep her happy rather than risk all the great sex I was now getting.
   I finished up our kiss and then we turned away to hop into our cabins. No verbal goodbyes were needed. We’d see each other in another couple of minutes once I put our hiking gear away and changed out of my boots, and while Dawn cleaned up the evidence of our fornication.
   It took me a little longer than usual to get everything put away. Brooke or the twins or someone had been a little careless with our other camping equipment, and I had to put it in order before unpacking the rest of my gear. But when I came back out, I somehow still beat Dawn in exiting the cabins.
   Five minutes after me, she came out still dirtied from our hike, having apparently not cleaned up at all.“Uh, Ben. Why don’t you head down to lunch without me? Dayna’s in there and we need to… uh… talk. You know, girl talk. I’ll catch up with you later.”
   Thinking nothing of it, I nodded and headed out. My stomach was already rumbling, and I couldn’t wait to get to lunch.
   However, not fifty yards from the cabin I came across Brooke and DJ sitting on a log, both of them staring quite obviously with smug expressions on their faces.
   “Ladies…” I arched an eyebrow and gave them an appraising look. The girls dismounted the big log and came right up to me.
   “Ben? Can we ask you a question?” Brooke said in a wary voice.
   “You just did,” I pointed out. “But you can ask me anything. I’m your brother.”
   “What do you and Dawn do all morning every day?” Brooke asked.
   Now it was my turn to blush. I didn’t have the self-control not to. “Uh… well… we go hiking. You’ve been with us a few times.”
   “In the afternoons,” my little sister clarified. “But you two always go alone for your morning hikes.”
   I shrugged.“We just like to be alone sometimes. I don’t see Dawn very often and it gives us a chance to catch up. Don’t you two just want to be alone sometimes?”
   The girls immediately looked at each other and blushed cherry red.“Well… maybe not like you and Dawn. You’re a boy.”
   “So? Talking is talking, boy or girl.”
   Brooke huffed and then said accusingly,“You’re not just talking though, are you?”
   I just stared at my sister blankly.
   “You’re kissing her on those hikes, aren’t you?”
   I shrugged.“I kiss her all the time.”
   “Yeah, and you don’t need to be alone to do that either. So that means…” Brooke’s eyes gleamed as I watched the gears turning in her brain. “You’re doing a LOT more than just kissing. That’s why you two need to sneak off alone.”
   I rolled my eyes.“No comment.”
   “You ARE! You two are doing sex stuff, aren’t you?” Brooke charged.
   “Yeah!” DJ chimed in. “I can smell her when she gets back. And it’s not just sweat.”
   I sighed and fixed my gaze on the 14-year-old blonde, who with her braided pigtails and innocent face looked WAY too young to even comprehend sex. I asked her,“And how would YOU know what sex stuff smells like?”
   DJ set her jaw and glared right back at me.“I get horny too, you know. I know what a girl’s cooch smells like.”
   “Look,” I sighed. “I said you can ask me anything. But I won’t answer questions that are private to Dawn. That wouldn’t be fair to her.”
   The girls bitched about that for another minute or two, but they got the hint after I stonewalled them and eventually all three of us headed down to the main lodge.
   Fifteen minutes later, I was working on my second hamburger when Dawn, Dayna, and Brandi all came in together, glowing happily. I wondered if the older sisters were as inquisitive as the younger sisters.WEDNESDAY, JULY 12, 2000
   “Oh, for crying out loud.” We’d gotten maybe a quarter mile before the sound of skidding behind me made me turn to look. There, not a fifty yards behind us, was Brooke, desperately trying to maintain her balance while ducking behind a tree around the bend in the trail.
   “Brooke! DJ! Go HOME!” I yelled.
   “They’re following us?” Dawn gaped at me.
   “Guess so. They’re curious what we’re up to.”
   “Good grief, we never followed Dayna and Brandi around, did we?” My blonde lover sighed.
   “Well, we never suspected they were sneaking off to have sex.” I shrugged.
   Dawn was strangely quiet on that one, but then Brooke finally came out from her worthless hiding spot and DJ came around the bend a few seconds later.
   “Why can’t we come hiking with you?” Brooke called.
   “Because you can’t!” I yelled back.
   “Well we’re following you!”
   “Then we’re all just going to stand right here until lunchtime!” I threatened.
   “Well you won’t be able to have sex then!” Brooke warned.
   “Fine. But you’ll get bored before we do and you KNOW it.” I folded my arms over my chest.
   Fifty yards away, Brooke did the same. And we siblings stared each other down. I wasn’t too worried. Brooke and DJ were just two years younger than us, but I knew their attention spans were half of ours. They’d fold.
   But then Dawn leaned into my ear.“But that’ll still leave less time for us,” she whispered in my ear. “We’ve got to give them something to get them to go away.”
   I shrugged.“But what?” I whispered back.
   “Let’s just tell them. No details. But I don’t mind admitting to them that we’re having sex. Mom already told DJ she would put her on the pill when she turned fifteen. And they already assume we’re doing it. Besides, don’t you want to try for four again?”
   My dick twitched and made the decision for me. I took a deep breath and then nodded. Dawn agreed and then she called out.“Okay girls, go back and leave us alone, and I promise we’ll tell you about it when we get back.”
   DJ gave her sister an evaluative look.“You promise?”
   “I promise,” Dawn said firmly.
   Our younger sisters looked at each other for a few seconds, but then DJ grabbed Brooke’s elbow and turned them around. Brooke flopped her arms in a “fine…” gesture and a moment later they were both out of sight.
   Dawn then took my elbow the same way DJ had taken Brooke’s. “Now my lover, let’s not waste any more time.”
   “Ben! Oh, Ben! Unnngh!”
   My head began to loll limply from side-to-side, my eyes closed as I focused in on the exquisite sensations coursing through my body. My chest bobbed back and forth while my hips hunched repeatedly, driving my cock deep through Dawn’s clasping tunnel.
   “So good! So good! I love it!”
   And then Dawn grabbed my head and yanked it down to hers, her tongue spearing between my lips as she came, wailing into our kiss while her body vibrated beneath me.
   Her spasming inner muscles pulled me along with her, and just as her climax began to wane, I began pumping out my second load of the morning, drenching her already soaked pussy. Even with all the lubrication and all the repeated fuckings of the past three days, she was still as tight as when I took her virginity.
   And like a marionette with its strings cut, all the energy fled my body…
   “… and he just collapses on you? Isn’t he heavy?” DJ looked at her sister with a furrowed forehead. Brooke shot me a dirty look. And I just blushed and looked away. I still couldn’t believe Dawn was telling them this.
   “It feels nice actually. I wouldn’t want him to just lie there forever, but right after an orgasm, it feels… intimate…” Dawn explained.
   “But you said he gets all sweaty. Isn’t that icky?” Brooke asked, screwing her face up like she was disgusted by the concept.
   “I get all sweaty too.” Dawn shrugged. “Sex is a lot of exercise.”
   The girls stewed on that and then Dawn clapped her hands together.“Okay? I’m sure it’s no different than what you’ve already heard. Sex is just sex. It can be fun, if you’re with the right guy.” Dawn beamed at me.
   “And how big did you say he was?” DJ asked innocently, not ready to let go of the conversation.
   “I didn’t say,” Dawn turned and glared at her sister. “Don’t be getting all manipulative now.”
   DJ pouted. But Brooke got in her own manipulations.“We’ll follow you again tomorrow. And the next day. And the next.”
   I warned,“Brooke…”
   “Or I’ll tell mom and dad what you’re really doing.”
   “Mom and Dad already know,” I rolled my eyes.
   “Really?” Brooke asked in confusion.
   “Really.” I sighed. “Look, you obviously have questions, so let’s just do this: NO, you can’t follow us; but I already told you, I’m your big brother and you can ask me anything. I won’t answer a question if I think it’s too personal, but you can ask me about sex or whatever and I’ll tell you the truth. I remember what it was like to be curious at your age and Brandi never told me a damn thing. But I’ll tell you, okay? You don’t have to turn into a conniving brat, alright?”
   “Really?” Brooke’s voice was now enthusiastically hopeful.
   “Yeah.”
   “Me, too,” Dawn said to DJ. “Although unlike Brandi, Dayna DID tell me just about everything. So I’ll return the favor.”
   “Yes!” Both girls cried, and suddenly Dawn and I had our little sisters hugging us. We looked over at each other, grinning proudly.
   It had been an interesting summer.
   “C’mon Ben, think you can finally beat me?” Brandi brushed her wet bangs out of her eyes and grinned. We got onto the pier and moved over into our starting positions. Our swimming races had existed since I was six and she was eight, and my big sister ALWAYS won. She was an excellent swimmer and she’d even beaten me twice already this summer. But this day, I intended to break that streak.
   “I almost did last week,” I retorted as I set my feet, the toes of my right foot gripping the edge.
   “Never in a million years,” Brandi stated emphatically as she stepped into position.
   “I dunno, Brandi,” Dayna chimed in. “He doesn’t look as wiped out as he’s been the past couple of days.”
   Dayna was right. Dawn and I had only made love twice that morning. After cramming as much fucking as we could for the first few days of our newfound sexual relationship, we’d both sort of gotten the initial lust out of our system and we’d found more time to just talk again. We made observations about a particular piece of wood floating down the creek. Dawn regaled me with the story of a hapless nerd who’d been crushing on her for a couple of months, even thoughshe was with Mark. And we philosophized on the nature of a society that had physically-fully-formed adult humans in their mid-teens but supposedly didn’t allow sex until 18.
   The fact was, talking wasn’t nearly as taxing on the body as fucking. Right now, I didn’t mind. I’d had both the pleasant company of a girl I loved and the extra energy to outrace Brandi on this day. Growth spurts had to be nice for FINALLY beating your older sister in a swimming race.
   “You can do it,” Dawn cheered.
   “I just think he needs a little encouragement,” Dayna added. Then she brightened. “I know: Ben, if you win, I’ll flash my tits at you.”
   “Wha—?” I suddenly jerked my head around and looked over at the 18-year-old vixen who was cupping her own Double-D’s in her red bikini and thrusting them together and at me.
   “See ya later, alligator!” Brandi called quickly and then she dove in.
   “Hey!” I whirled around so fast to protest that I lost my balance, and then with a groan I fell flat on my back into the lake, slapping the water painfully.
   I came up sputtering and Brandi had already stopped a few yards ahead, laughing uncontrollably.
   Dayna just shrugged and dropped her hands to the side.“Too bad. I think you would have liked the view.”
   We came back and restarted the race, but Brandi still won the rematch. I blame it on not being able to get my focus back.
   “Did you really mean it? About holding hands?” Dawn asked sweetly, playing with our intertwined fingers as we walked along aimlessly.
   “Hmm?” I wasn’t following. It was after dinner and Dawn and I were going for a little walk around the camp before the sun went down. Rules stipulated that we couldn’t get too far, which meant we couldn’t get far enough to have sex without worrying about being caught. But we could find enough privacy for some light kissing and petting and just enjoying each other’s company.
   “Did you mean it that you’d be happy just doing nothing and holding my hand?” Dawn clarified.
   “Yes.” I gave her an extra squeeze and felt that pleasant buzz frittering its way through my body and towards my heart. “I just love being around you Dawn. I mean, I’ve loved my life ever since my growth spurt finally hit, but these weeks with you have been so wonderful.”
   “So… if I told you tomorrow I just wanted to hike and kiss and hold hands, but no sex, you’d be okay with it?”
   I blushed.“Well… I AM just a guy. So I’d stillhope… but yeah. I’d be okay with it. You know I’d never pressure you.” I took a deep breath. “Why? Is that all you want to do tomorrow?”
   Dawn giggled.“No, of course not. I want you to screw me silly tomorrow!”
   “Thank god,” I sighed with relief. And just when I was about to start complaining about Dawn scaring me like that, a new voice cut in.
   “Hey guys, wait up!”
   With some annoyance, I paused to see Dayna waving at us. The last thing I wanted right now was a third-wheel. Wasn’t Brooke and DJ incessantly asking us questions annoying enough? But Dawn just smiled brilliantly at her sister and squeezed my hand reassuringly. And I let myself zone out to watching Dayna’s big tits bouncing up and down inside her shirt as she hurried to catch up.
   “Where are you two going?” Dayna asked when she reached us.
   “Oh, around,” I waved aimlessly. “Where’s Brandi?”
   “She’s hanging out with Lucia and Tammy,” Dayna shrugged. “I’ll meet up with them for s’mores later.”
   “Well, how about going up to the ridge?” Dawn looked over at me with a hopeful smile on her face. “Should be a great sunset tonight.”
   I shrugged, tamping down on my lust. The ridge was a very short hike away and was a romantic spot from which you could look down across the valley and see the wonderful sunsets every night, as long as the weather was clear. The only problem was that everyone else knew it as well and there were always atleast 20 people there. But… it WAS a romantic view and hey, whatever Dawn wanted. “Sure,” I replied.
   So the three of us hiked up and we managed to find a good spot where the rocks had been cut into a wide bench, big enough for the three of us to sit side-by-side with a decent view. Somewhat to my surprise, Dayna sat down so that I was sandwiched between the two Evans girls. And then we all got into a little conversation just to pass the time.
   It was during this conversation that I started to get the odd feeling that Dayna was flirting with me. She wasn’t blatant about it, nothing like the obvious chest leaning or other physical seductions I’d seen her do before. But she giggled cutely at all my jokes and brushed her fingers against my arm or leg more than once while we chatted. I was sure she wouldn’t intentionally flirt with me right in front of her sister, with whom I was joined at the hip. But I wasn’t entire certain her flirtations were entirely subconscious, either.
   The mood all changed just ten minutes before sunset. People had been coming up for the last twenty minutes. Now, Greg Kinomoto and Felicia Clarkson walked up, found a spot to sit down, and then were promptly all over each other. Within a minute, the two were oblivious to anyone else around as Felicia was sitting in Greg’s lap while the two gorgeous young adults french kissed and rubbed each other’s bodies without a care in the world.
   Dayna tensed the moment the pair had come up. While Brandi had accepted Greg’s new relationship without significant care, Dayna was proving to have had more than just an idle crush on the hunky guy, and she clearly wasn’t comfortable with the situation.
   Dayna quietly seethed as she glared over at the couple. So sensing her sister’s discomfort, Dawn reached across me and squeezed Dayna’s hand. “We can go,” Dawn said quietly.
   I arched an eyebrow.“Sunset is only a couple minutes away,” I whined.
   Dawn rolled her eyes at me.“We’ve got two more weeks to see the same view. It’s not like you haven’t seen it before.”
   I sighed, Dayna nodded, and the three of us started heading back down the short trail.
   Once we returned to the main areas, I was hoping that Dayna would split off and rejoin her friends. But instead, Dawn turned to me.“Ben, Dayna and I need to talk a bit. I’ll see you tomorrow?”
   So no more hanky-panky for tonight. I’d been looking forward to sneaking my hand into her shorts, but it looked like I wouldn’t get the opportunity. I sighed and then nodded. Then I stepped forward to hug Dawn and kiss her goodnight. “See you tomorrow,” I said warmly.
   Dawn looked lovingly into my eyes, brushing her hand along my cheek. I melted underneath her soft blue gaze, feeling a lump forming in my throat. I was getting much closer to thinking of her as a love than as a friend, and I blinked to keep the emotion out of my eyes. She kissed me and then said,“See you tomorrow.”
   To my surprise, once I released Dawn, Dayna stepped forward and hugged me, crushing those big tits into my chest for a brief moment. And to top things off, she turned her head and pecked my cheek.“See you tomorrow, Ben.”
   “Uh, goodnight, Dayna.”THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2000
   After the slight downer of the previous night, I was pleasantly relieved to get things back to normal the next morning. Thursday found Dawn and I at our usual spot and in our usual activity.
   “Oh, Ben! Unnngh! Oh, yes! Deeper, Ben! Deeper! I’m gonna cum, Ben! You’re gonna make me cum again! Yes! Yes! Oh, harder! Ungh! I’m cumming! Yes! Yes! YES!!!”
   Dawn’s fingers dug into my shoulder blades, pulling me tightly against her chest while her legs hooked around the back of my thighs and tugged me all the way into her. And as I felt her pussy spasming around my shaft, I let myself go and poured out a river of cum deep into her body.
   The position was a favorite of ours. I’d experimented a lot with Keira: doggy, wheelbarrow, reverse-cowgirl, some pretzel-formation. But it only took two days for Dawn and I to figure out that we really only wanted two positions: missionary and with her on top while staring into my eyes. So maybe those positions weren’t adventurousor exciting. We didn’t care. Those other positions didn’t feel intimate enough. Only the two positions we wanted felt like true lovemaking.
   I didn’t even fold her in half, pressing her legs back until her knees were by her head, like I’d done to Keira several times. That was just using Dawn, fucking her. And it wasn’t what either of us wanted. It just felt so much better when we were “making love”.
   So in our favorite position, Dawn cradled my head and kissed me while I continued filling her pussy with my cock cream. And only when my hips gave their last involuntary spasm did she finally release me and let me rest my forehead on the ground just past her shoulder.
   This was another part of the wonderful routine. She always wanted to feel my heavy weight pressing her down, even though the unyielding ground couldn’t have been very comfortable, our towels and blankets never as soft as a true mattress. But there was only so long I could stand to crush her, and soon enough she let me roll off of her lest I start to worry about her physical well-being.
   Dawn kissed me again, and when she pulled away she started crying softly.
   “Dawn?” I said, immediately concerned. “What’s wrong?” But she waved me off and stifled her tears in another few seconds.
   I let her catch her breath and then she fixed those baby blue eyes on me.“Camp is almost half over. In two more weeks, you’ll be gone again.” She took a deep breath and then frowned pitifully. “I wish you were coming back to the Bay Area with me.”
   I smiled and touched her cheek.“Me too.” I sighed. “But that wouldn’t be very fair to Mark.”
   She shook her head rapidly to the sides like a bratty child.“I don’t care about Mark. I’m falling in love with you, Ben.”
   I sighed. I’d been through this before. “That’s the sex talking, Dawn.”
   She exhaled and shook her head.“Yeah, the sex has a lot to do with it. But come on Ben… do you really think this is just sex between us?”
   “Of course not.” I stroked her cheek. “I do love you, Dawn.”
   “Enough to want me for your girlfriend?”
   I felt a giddy elation leaping through me at that thought.“Yes!” But then I sighed, “If you were in Orange County with me.”
   Dawn pouted.“But I’m not. And you’re not in the Bay Area.”
   “Well, I DO want to go to Cal in a couple of years.”
   “College is more than two years away, Ben. I can’t wait for you that long.”
   I held up a hand.“I know, I know. And I’m not asking you to.”
   “So where does that leave us? I want to love you, Ben. But are we just friends?”
   I rubbed my thumb along her nose and smiled.“Not JUST friends. You’re my Dawn… You’ll always be… forever.”
   “Your Dawn… I like that…” She smiled, finally starting to look happy for the first time since her brief stint of crying. “Okay. So we’re friends. And we’re special friends. And this…” she motioned back and forth between our two bodies, “… is just sex, right?”
   I shrugged.“I suppose.”
   “So we’re not boyfriend/girlfriend or anything,” Dawn began with an odd tone in her voice.
   “90 % of the camp already thinks we are, but no, we’re not. We’re… something else.”
   “So if we’re not boyfriend/girlfriend, there’s no exclusivity or anything, right?”
   That perked my head up and for a moment.“Dawn… are you asking me if it’s okay for you to have sex with another boy?”
   “Well, not exactly…” Dawn hedged.
   I was already pushing whatever jealousy I felt aside and before Dawn could say anything, I stated firmly,“I’m not demanding any faithfulness from you, Dawn. You’re not my girlfriend and you can do whatever you want.”
   My jaw quivered just a bit, betraying my concern. I didn’t REALLY want her to sleep with any other boys, especially while I was still around, but I was trying to do the right thing. “I mean, you’re my friend, and I care about you. If I think a guy is an asshole, I may try to talk you out of it like any friend would. But I’m not handcuffing you to me or anything. Okay?”
   “Really?” Dawn’s eyebrows went up in hope.
   “Really. I mean, Mark is still your boyfriend. It’s up to him to decide that part. But from me, I think we should both just enjoy our summer. We’re too young for commitments.” I shrugged. “I mean, I can’t help it Dawn, but even myself, I want to have sex with a LOT more girls before I get married.”
   “Boys,” Dawn sighed, rolling her eyes. Then she fixed me with an odd look. “I’ll bet there are more than a few girls at this camp you wouldn’t mind fucking.”
   I blushed.“Uh… well, of course. I’m just a guy.”
   “Hmm, lemme guess, Felicia Clarkson?”
   It was my turn to roll my eyes.“Obviously.”
   “Lucia Ramirez?”
   “Sure.”
   “Barb Hemingway?”
   “Dawn, you could list almost every female here between the ages of 30 and 15 and I’d say yes.”
   “Tina Nguyen?”
   “Yes.”
   “Dayna Evans?”
   “Ye—”. I cut off the sound as my eyes flew open and my jaw dropped at the name of Dawn’s older sister. Immediately, the memory of her big tits bulging in a skimpy bikini came to mind. I blinked rapidly and then noticed Dawn grinning at me.
   “Well?” she asked.
   I blushed.“Purely on a lust level, of course. Dawn, you know your sister is hot.”
   “Men. All they see is her big boobs.”
   “Hey! I mean, I notice those, of course. But your sister has always been pretty nice to me. Certainly nicer than my own big sister. Dayna’s really sweet.”
   Dawn covered her smile and then pointed down to my crotch. I had a fresh erection that was turning dark purple and throbbing on its own.“I don’t think Dayna’s ‘niceness’ is what’s causing that.”
   “What do you want from me? I’m just a guy.” I fell back on old apologies.
   “Mmm… that’s one reason I love you, Ben.” Dawn rolled into me, pushing me onto my back while she began to jack my shaft and guided it in between her folds.
   And as Dawn sank herself down onto my pole, she sighed,“I’ll have to thank my sister later for giving me this wonderful erection.”FRIDAY, JULY 14, 2000
   “Oh, Ben! Unnngh! Oh, yes! Deeper, Ben! Deeper!”
   I pumped Dawn a little deeper, taking longer strokes to make sure I fully embedded all seven-and-a-half inches of my cock in to the root and let myself linger an extra half-beat before withdrawing.
   Dawn panted.“I’ve got a surprise for you Ben.”
   “Huh?” I huffed while continuing to drill my dick in and out of the 16-year-old’s tight pussy.
   “You remember asking me if I’d been eaten before? And not by Mark?”
   “Uh-huh…” I drawled. Where was she going with this? Couldn’t she see that I was getting close to cumming?
   “Well the girl is here, Ben. Do you want to see me get eaten by another girl?”
   I felt my cock lurch and all of a sudden I was a LOT closer to cumming.“Ohhh…” I groaned. “Oh, hell yeah.”
   Dawn giggled and bucked her hips at me.“Well you will… soon…”
   “When?”
   “You’ve got to cum first, Ben. Cum inside me. Fill me with your spunk! Now Ben! Now!”
   Dawn had one orgasm earlier. I’d planned to hold out until she got at least one more, but with visions of Dawn with another girl’s head between her legs, and her urging “Now!” in my ear, I couldn’t keep myself back anymore. I lunged forward a final time, holding myself all the way in while I felt my cockhead coming apart. And then I began hosing down Dawn’s innards with my first load of the day.
   Afterwards, I was panting for breath while crushing her chest, and Dawn hummed happily while the peaceful solitude of our private grove huddled around us. But just as I was starting to relax, I heard the crunching sound of footsteps coming along the trail, and then the last bushes were pushed aside just as I craned my head around to see Dayna Evans emerge into our little clearing.
   “Perfect timing,” Dawn gushed.
   “Actually, I was waiting for a few minutes. You two look SO hot together,” Dayna replied with a big smile on her face.
   “What’s going on?” My head darted back and forth between the two blonde sisters.
   “You wanted to see my lesbian lover eating me out, right?”
   My jaw dropped as it suddenly became so obvious.“Dayna?”
   “Sorry Ben, but she’s even better than you at eating me. And now she’s here to suck your cum out of my cunt.”
   My eyes flew open wide as Dayna Evans was already stripping out of her hiking gear. Her shorts and a short-sleeved button-down top hit the ground, and then she began shrugging out of the bikini she was wearing underneath. If my jaw hadn’t already been on the ground, it would have been dropped the instant her bikini came off and Dayna’s Double-D’s popped into naked view. “Holy SHIT!” I exclaimed.
   They were gorgeous. They were perfect. They were so big and so round and capped with such pretty, pink nipples. I started salivating at the mere sight of them.
   “Ooh, he’s already getting hard inside me,” Dawn giggled. “He must think you’re pretty hot, sis.”
   “I AM hot,” Dayna said confidently while she dropped her bikini bottoms, revealing her shaved pussy and her nude body in all its glory. And she was definitely hot. Curvier than Dawn everywhere, with wider hips and an obviously bigger chest perched around a waist that was pretty close to the same as her younger sisters. I personally thought Dawn had the prettier face, but Dayna’s body could have made a corpse spring an erection.
   “Okay, out of the way, Ben. Let me at her.” Dayna came up and tugged on my shoulder. Still in shellshock, I obediently withdrew from Dawn’s tight pussy and rolled to the side. I saw a glob of white semen leak out and begin to ooze down her cleft, but Dayna ducked her head and took a long lickupwards to capture my semen before it dribbled onto the blanket. Soon, noisy slurping sounds began to fill the air while I watched Dayna’s blonde head wriggle in Dawn’s crotch.
   For her part, Dawn sighed happily, letting her head rest back on the blanket while she tangled her fingers in her big sister’s hair.
   I blinked rapidly, still in disbelief.“How…” I began hesitantly and Dawn opened her eyes to look at me. “How long?”
   “Since last summer,” Dawn sighed. “Spending all that time masturbating with you had me so horny. Mom put me on the pill and I started thinking about sex constantly. And Dayna had spent that entire summer eating out—” Dawn pinched her lips together to stop herself from spilling the name while Dayna popped up to glare at her little sister.
   “Well, uh, with her lover,” Dawn finished weakly. “So we were both horny and one thing led to another. I told you she popped my cherry with one of her dildos.”
   I was still blinking rapidly, staring at Dayna’s head between Dawn’s legs. “Wow…”
   “Mmm…” Dawn sighed happily. “She’s sooo good at it. Maybe she can teach you for the rest of the summer.”
   My eyes went wide at the idea of having Dayna around us for the rest of the summer. A part of me didn’t like the idea as it would cut into my one-on-one time with Dawn, but the horny part of me loved the idea of having a naked Dayna around as much as possible. My dick certainly liked the idea, and it twitched in response.
   “Mmm… Come here, Ben,” Dawn drawled. “Gimme your cock.”
   My dick liked that idea even more, and I quickly got to my knees and shuffled over so that Dawn could reach out and pull my shaft into her mouth. And for the next five minutes, we were all too occupied to speak. Dayna was frigging herself while munching out Dawn, my semen long vacuumed out and swallowed down. Dawn was writhing in pleasure and noisily slurping on my dick. And I was groaning as I felt my best friend’s hand jacking me into her mouth.
   Unsurprisingly, Dawn came first. She was just having too much fun blowing me and her sister really was quite the rug-muncher. Then, once Dawn got that first orgasm, Dayna popped her head up and wiped her mouth with the back of her hand.“Now? Please?”
   Dawn chuckled.“Mmm… yeah… I want to see it.”
   Dayna’s eyes lit up and she moved over, practically tackling me with her hot naked flesh pressing up against me.
   “Whoa! Whoa! What’s going on?” I yelped in surprise and reflexively tried to fend Dayna off.
   “Relax Ben. Dayna just wants to fuck you,” Dawn soothed.
   “Huh?” Again I went rigid in shock and surprise, and Dayna took the opportunity to push me flat on my back and start stroking my shaft in its upright and locked position.
   “What? Don’t you want to?” Dawn asked.
   “Please, Ben?” Dayna batted her eyelashes at me. “You’ve got such a beautiful cock.”
   “Well… uh… I…” I stammered before looking at Dayna, the alluring 18-year-old blonde staring at me lustfully while her big tits jiggled just a foot away from my face. I took one last look to Dawn for confirmation, and then I returned my gaze to Dayna’s pretty blue eyes. “Oh, HELL YEAH.”
   Dayna broke out into a big grin and without further ado, she moved her knees to either side of me, holding my cock erect between her legs, and she began lowering herself onto my pole.
   I found myself holding my breath when the mushroom head notched into her folds, and then with a little extra pressure, she pushed me through and began moaning while my shaft burrowed into her body as she descended further and further down.
   “Oh… yes…” Dayna hissed. “Such a niiice dick, Ben…”
   “Ohhh…” I groaned. “Such a niiice pussy, Dayna…” And it was. Entry was tight without being constricting. Her interior was accommodating without being too loose. And I could already feel her working her inner muscles to clench and wrap around my cock in ways even Keira couldn’t match.
   If I hadn’t been so overwhelmed by the pleasure, I might have actually started to worry. After exploring sex with Dawn and Megan, I’d gotten used to being the experienced one. Only Keira had been far more knowledgeable about sex than me, but it was known that she was the teacher and I the student.
   However, Dayna was just plain more experienced than me and if I’d stopped to think about it, I probably would have worried about inadequately pleasing her. But I didn’t stop to think about it. I was surrounded by wonderful pussy and all I could think of was fucking. So instinct and lust took over.
   Dayna wasn’t even all the way down before I planted my feet, gripped her waist, and lunched my hips upwards and off the blanket, impaling her the last couple of inches and forcing a wail out of Dayna’s throat. The friction felt so good that I withdrew almost immediately and then hammered up into her onceagain.
   And again…
   And again…
   And soon the busty elder teen was bouncing up and down in my lap, her head flopping around like a rag doll while she rode my bucking cock.“Fuck! Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck!” Dayna wheezed. Her tits were gyrating all over the place and my eyes went wide as my next lustful urges kicked in.
   I dropped my hips down, giving my legs a rest, and I also slammed Dayna down against my crotch. This time, I moved my arms in a circular motion, rotating her around my pole rapidly so that I carved out the sides of her pussy, causing Dayna to whimper at the new sensations. And at the same time, I tugged her down just enough so that her torso collapsed over me, thrusting those massive tits into my face where I could start nipping and biting at her nipples.
   “Oh, FUCK, Ben!” Dayna groaned while I suckled on her teats. “What are you DOING to me?”
   I didn’t answer but to suck harder and continue rolling her hips around my shaft. Dayna didn’t seem to mind my non-verbal response, because she simply closed her eyes and called out a keening moan, her body stiffening up as I took her over into a fierce climax. “Fuuuuuuuuck!” she screamed.
   At that point, my arms started to burn with the exertion of whipping her around and around. So I simply pushed her off me to flop onto her back, accidentally knocking her body into Dawn in the process. But before Dayna could completely get herself free of her little sister, I had moved between her legs and powerfully thrust my rock hard dick into her once again.
   Dayna screeched and instinctively wrapped her left arm around Dawn, holding on for dear life while I pounded in and out of her pussy. I nibbled and bit the eldest Evans daughter’s exposed neck and then ran my lips up along her jawline before she grabbed the back of my head and pulled me to her for a fierce kiss.
   Dayna moaned into my mouth and our tongues twirled together, but moments later she pulled away to gasp at a particularly good thrust, and I elevated myself up to look down at the beautiful 18-year-old as she writhed beneath me. Dayna’s big tits were jiggling back and forth with my fucking motions, and I ducked my head and bared my teeth against her tits which caused a fresh set of groans from her gaping mouth.
   “Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck,” Dayna chanted while I drilled her out. “Oh, I’m going to cum again! I’m going to cum again!”
   And I was going to cum as well. My whole body was aching with the exertion by now. And as I rammed my cock in and out of her, I started carefully watching the expressions on Dayna’s face, reading for the signs Keira McNeil had taught me and striving to hold back my own orgasm until the right moment.
   And then the right moment came. Dayna’s head jerked as her neck went up; her head tilting back while her jaw gaped open. And I let myself go then, slamming my cock in to the hilt and letting out a fire hose blast of semen inside Dayna’s clenching pussy. And right when the first wave splashed against her innards, Dayna screamed herclimax. “FUUUUUUCK!!!”
   Her hips jerked at me. My hips jerked at her. And together we flung our bodily fluids at each other inside the rioting, spasming confines of Dayna’s pussy. And we kept flinging fluids inside to splash up and mingle into a cum-laced cocktail until neither of us had anything left to give.
   Ultimately, with both our bodies sweaty and flushed, I collapsed straight on top of Dawn’s big sister, wheezing and gasping for oxygen while I compressed her firm tits into my chest.
   “Holy SHIT!” Dawn exclaimed. “Is THAT what we look like?”
   Dayna just blinked uncomprehendingly while staring straight up.“I HATE you Dawn,” she gasped. “I hate you, I hate you, I hate you.”
   “Huh?” Dawn responded.
   “Ben is fucking INCREDIBLE!” Dayna whined. “And you’ve been holding out on me!”
   Dawn just started giggling and then pushed on my hips to roll me out of the way. Exhausted, I pulled out and sagged flat onto my back, craning my head up just enough to watch Dawn duck down and begin slurping out the mingled creampie from her sister’s box.
   Then two minutes later, Dawn sat up with her hand over her mouth, her cheeks bulging. And then to my delight, I watched my best friend and lover move directly atop her older sister. And both beautiful teens opened their mouths and I watched them kissing passionately and swapping creamy jism back and forth between their lips.
   In the end, Dayna got it all. Dawn handled the taste well enough, mostly because I liked her swallowing. But Dayna hungrily went after every droplet, even stopping to lick up the spillage from Dawn’s chin and cheeks.
   When they were done, Dayna laid her head back and sighed happily.“Yummy.”
   Dawn giggled,“You’re such a cumslut.”
   “Hey, if you’re not all thrilled with the taste,” Dayna grinned. “I’ll be happy to swallow every drop from now until the end of camp.”
   Dawn glanced over at me and saw the gleam in my eye. She smiled and said while looking straight at me,“Sounds like a plan.”
   Lunch was an interesting exercise. Per usual, Dawn sat beside me and spent the entire time with her hip pressed up against mine on the bench seat. We chatted and laughed and speared food off of each other’s plate. Eden and Emma and also Brooke and DJ were the same way, albeit without the physical rubbing against each other.
   But this day, Dayna was pressed right up against my other side. She didn’t stay there permanently, but she was rather obviously flirting with me more than usual. Mrs. Evans took a few hard looks at Dayna during the meal before she eventually gave me a knowing smirk, at which I blushed. And I found it REALLY hard to look Mr. Evans in the eye, knowing that I’d just rolled off oftwo of his daughters.
   But so far, everyone but Mrs. Evans seemed oblivious.
   That afternoon, I found myself rather tired after the morning’s exertions with the Evans girls. They hadn’t stopped until they pulled two more orgasms out of me, the highlight being when Dawn and Dayna had lain side-by-side and had me switching back and forth between them before pulling out and spurting all over Dawn’s tits. Then Dayna had licked it all up.
   In any case, we were tired and opted to forego any activities in favor of just laying out by the lake. So we wound up in a line, Brandi, Dayna, me, and then Dawn, catching some rays and enjoying the breeze coming down through the valley.
   After we’d been relaxing for about half an hour, Greg Kinomoto and Felicia Clarkson walked by. Felicia was very obvious to direct herself and her new boyfriend directly in front of our lounge chairs before moving on to their usual spot further down the beach. And as they passed, Felicia very obviously reached out and squeezed Greg’s firm buttcheeks. But Dayna didn’t even react.
   Once the gorgeous older pair was gone, Brandi pushed her shades up onto her forehead and glanced over to Dayna.“What a bitch.”
   Dayna just shrugged.“Whatever.”
   “What? That doesn’t bother you?”
   Dayna groggily shrugged again as if she couldn’t care less. “She’s welcome to him. I’ve been satisfied now,” she smiled and Dawn giggled.
   Brandi swept her eyes back and forth, clearly confused. Her best friend had gone from pissy and hurt to completely at ease practically overnight.“Satisfied? Does this have something to do with that thing you needed to take care of this morning?”
   I stiffened up. I’d assumed that my older sister knew Dayna had joined us this morning. But then Dayna just innocently answered, “It was nothing.”
   Brandi wasn’t buying it. She knew her friend the same way I knew Dawn. Brandi sat up straight and leaned forward. “Dayna… what are you not telling me?” she asked with a warning tone in her voice.
   Dayna squirmed a bit.“Nothing…”
   “Did you meet up with a boy this morning?” Brandi’s eyes flared accusingly. And then her eyebrows jumped up in surprise. “Oh, hell. Did you get LAID this morning?”
   Nothing could stop the upward tug at the corners of Dayna’s mouth, even though she tried to smother the smile.
   “Dayna!” Brandi hissed and leaned forward, trying to drop her volume so that the whole lake didn’t hear. “You didn’t TELL me? Who was it?”
   I tried to melt into my chair, praying that my big sister didn’t find out. Dawn smiled and reached out to hold my hand.
   “C’mon, Brandi. Nothing happened,” Dayna protested.
   “Bullshit. I know that look. And ‘satisfied’? You couldn’t come up with a more innocent word that that?”
   “Brandi…”
   “C’mon,” Brandi huffed. “It’s not like I mind you going off to get laid. You’ve certainly been horny enough lately. It just hurts that you didn’t tell me first. Now come on, who was it? Connor? Mario?”
   Dayna screwed up her face.“I can’t tell you.”
   “Why not?” Brandi’s voice was picking up in volume again.
   “Because I can’t!” Dayna protested.
   “FINE!” Brandi spat. “Some best friend you are.” With that, my sister started gathering her things in preparation to leave.
   Dayna turned her head away and looked to me and Dawn with a torn expression on her face. I winced, completely unsure of how my sister would react if she found out. But Dawn just sighed and then nodded.
   “Brandi, wait,” Dayna sighed, shaking her head as if in disbelief.
   Brandi immediately sat and leaned forward eagerly.
   “You have to promise you won’t get mad,” said hesitantly.
   “Mad? Why would I get mad?”
   “Promise!”
   “Fine, jeez.” Brandi rolled her eyes. “I promise, I promise.”
   Dayna sighed.“I went hiking with Dawn and Ben this morning.”
   “Huh?” Brandi sat up, not yet understanding. And then she figured it out and her eyes flew WIDE open. “Ohmigod!”
   My sister stared in shock at her best friend. Then she stared in shock at me. And her voice cracked as she said in disbelief,“Ben?”
   I winced and then nodded in confirmation.
   Dayna just threw her hands up and sat up.“Oh, relax, Brandi. It’s not like I’m going to marry him or anything. It’s just sex. And he’s very good.”
   “Dayna! I don’t want to hear that! He’s my brother!”
   Dayna took her sunglasses off and rolled her eyes.“You WATCHED him with me. You already know he’s having sex and that he’s quite good at it. What’s the big deal?”
   “Big deal? You had sex with my little brother!” Brandi said shrilly.
   Dayna was waving her hands in a‘calm down’ gesture. “Announce it to the world why don’t you?” she hissed in a quieter voice.
   Brandi was still in shock and she shook her head as if she could somehow dislodge the knowledge. Dayna sighed and just got up.“Come on, Brandi. Let’s go somewhere a little more private.”
   Listlessly, my older sister let Dayna take her hand and hoist her to her feet. Dayna then turned to us.“See you later guys.” Then Dayna pursed her lips and blew me a kiss. “Bye, Ben.”
   “Stop worrying, your sister will be fine.” Dawn squeezed my hand reassuringly.
   I sighed,“She wouldn’t even look at me during dinner.” I kicked a pebble in the middle of the trail. I didn’t know why this was bugging me. Why would I care what Brandi thought? She was just my bitchy, bossy older sister. She never approved of anything I ever did, whether it was my choice in friendsat school or my seeming lack of elite athleticism. Until I’d gotten my growth spurt, she’d just been condescending and plain mean to me and my younger siblings. And now I’d boinked her hot best friend. If anything, I should be feeling proud of myself. But I worried. I hadn’t planned on ruining my relationship with Brandi over this.
   “She’ll get over it,” Dawn assured me. “It’s just a bit of a shock to her right now. She’s not used to seeing you as anything more than just a little kid. I don’t think she’s MAD. Brandi just needs time to adjust to thinking of you as more grown up than she’d expected.”
   “If you say so.”
   Dawn shrugged.“Dayna went through the same thing. She about flipped on me last year when she found out we were getting naked and masturbating. She couldn’t handle that I was growing up. But when she realized I was going through the same thing she’d gone through two years earlier, she was the one insisting my mom get me on the pill.”
   “I dunno. You and Dayna were at least cool together growing up. Brandi and I have only ever been adversaries.”
   “She’s growing up too.”
   “Maybe. But as hot and sexy as Dayna is, I wouldn’t touch her if it meant things getting weird between me and Brandi. In two weeks, I won’t be seeing Dayna again for a long while. I’ve got to live with my sister for the rest of the summer.”
   Dawn exhaled unhappily.“What about me? Would you give me up for your sister?”
   “What? You? No!” I stopped dead in my tracks and wrapped up Dawn in my arms. “Screw Brandi!”
   “Hmm, maybe thatwould help.”
   “Huh?”
   Dawn giggled.“Screwing Brandi. Then all three of us would be in the same boat.”
   My eyes went wide in shock and Dawn’s giggles turned into full-blown laughter. “Just kidding, just kidding,” she chuckled. “But you should have seen your face!”
   I shook my in annoyance and just continued on, Dawn letting me tug her along where our hands were joined. This night, we did end up on the ridge to watch the sunset. And afterwards, we found a quiet little corner to make out for a good few minutes, caressing each other’s body and hungrily devouring each other’s lips.
   Yeah, I’d fucked Dayna, who had a more developed body, bigger tits, and a wealth of sexual experience that made our fuck absolutely incredible. But at the end of the day, all I wanted was to be with Dawn… my Dawn.
   It almost broke my heart when I had to kiss her goodnight.
   “Ben?”
   I stopped in the doorway to the cabin, my eyes adjusting to the brighter light. Eden and Emma were already asleep for the night. Brooke was in her final preparations for going to bed. But Brandi was fully dressed and waiting for me while reading a book in the living room.
   “Hi Brandi.”
   “Can we… talk?” She glanced around the room and to the bedroom doorways: our parents’ door closed, but the kids’ room door open. “Maybe outside?”
   My mouth went dry and I nervously nodded.“Sure.”
   Brandi led the way and we soon settled onto a bench on the porch, looking down the hill towards the main lodge. Only a single-bulb lamp by the door illuminated us, casting my older sister’s face in harsh shadows that made her seem even scarier than usual.
   Not sure what to do, I simply stayed silent and waited her out.
   Brandi, on the other hand, took a deep breath and started to say something twice, both times ending with harsh exhalations while she recollected herself. But the third time, she took a deep breath and then asked,“Do you love Dawn?”
   The answer came to me easily enough.“Yes. Very much.”
   “Then how could you have sex with Dayna?”
   That answer didn’t come quite so easily. “Uh… well… she wanted to. Dawn wanted to watch. And hey, I’m a guy. Dayna’s hot.”
   “But she’s your girlfriend’s sister!”
   I shrugged. Now was not the time to clarify the whole‘girlfriend’ issue regarding Dawn’s status. “Dawn was right there the whole time. We even… well…”
   Brandi shook her head in disbelief.“Dayna told me everything. You actually had a real three-way. So it’s just sex?”
   “Sure, why not?”
   “Aren’t you IN love with Dawn?”
   “Well…” I drawled. “I’m… I’m not sure… I’m not totally sure what being IN love feels like.”
   Brandi sighed.“When you’re in love, you KNOW. Believe me.”
   I arched an eyebrow, thinking back over Brandi’s various boyfriends. She was quite the hottie herself, always with boys hanging on to her and calling her for dates. But I couldn’t figure out which of them, if any, she’d been in love with.
   Brandi took a deep breath and then fixed me with a firm look.“Ben, when did you start having sex?”
   I pulled my head back, my instinctive little brother defensiveness coming in.“I’m not telling you.”
   Exasperated, she complained,“Why not?”
   “Why should I? When did YOU start having sex, Brandi?”
   She clammed up immediately and looked away.“But you’re my little brother.”
   “So?”
   She exhaled again and looked up, blinking against the harshness of the single-bulb light.“Are you going to keep having sex with Dayna?”
   “That’s kind of up to her. I don’t know if she wants to continue.”
   “She wants to,” Brandi said glumly.
   “Then yeah. As long as Dawn doesn’t object, yeah, I want to. Dayna’s hot.”
   Brandi winced, but then she took a deep breath and looked over at me with a strange expression. Then raising her eyebrows, she bit her lower lip and finally exhaled for almost a minute.“Wow Ben… you’ve really grown up…”
   I shrugged. My life really was quite different at 5’10” after such a long time below 5’3”.
   “Okay,” Brandi sat up. “I’m not sure I’ll ever be able to stop looking at you as my little twerp of a brother, but I guess I’ll have to accept the situation. You’re a man now. You’re having sex with Dawn, which I was sort of expecting. And you’re having sex with other girls, whichI sorta knew was possible, but just never really thought of.” She took another deep breath. “Just treat Dayna right, okay? She’s my friend.”
   “Of course,” I said with certainty.
   “Okay Ben.” Brandi leaned forward and hugged me, and to my surprise my arms automatically enfolded her and I hugged her back. Due to our new height differential, her head wound up just under my chin, with her nose pressed into my chest. “Big Ben…” she sighed, disbelief still in her voice.
   And at the phrase‘Big Ben’, I couldn’t help but feel that my older sister was finally going to give me some measure of respect.SATURDAY, JULY 15, 2000
   “Mmph! Mmph! Mmph!”
   I imagined that Dayna was trying to exclaim her pleasure, caused by my repeated thrusting into her clenching tunnel from behind. But unfortunately, her face was buried into Dawn’s crotch and she couldn’t get the extra air necessary to really scream. After all, every time she tried to pull back far enough, my pelvis slammed into her tight ass and thrust her face forward once again.
   Eventually, I nutted deep inside Dayna’s pussy, and Dawn reversed her position to turn the two sisters into a sixty-nine, the younger sister on the bottom, suckling out my cream from the wide-open snatch above her face. Meanwhile, I circled around to the other side, letting Dayna lick me up like a popsicle, showing obvious enthusiasmas she blew me back to hardness.
   For round two, the girls rolled over so that Dawn was on top while they sixty-nined. And while I didn’t find the act of fucking Dawn from behind to be as intimate as we’d been before, it was still a thrill to watch my thick pole splitting her perky buttcheeks while I drilled in and out of her pussy. And this time, when it was time for me to blow, Dayna popped me out of her little sister and managed to stuff my entire seven-and-a-half inches down her throat so that I was spunking straight into her belly.
   I looked down, watching Dayna’s pretty face as she gleefully drank down every drop I had to give her. Just above her was Dawn’s tight ass, all perky cheeks and pink flushed pussy oozing her own arousal. And I smiled seeing Dayna’s big, fleshy melons capped with dusky nipples and naked for my viewing pleasure.
   I loved my life.MONDAY, JULY 17, 2000
   I stopped and kissed Dawn just before we went into our respective cabins, feeling a deep-rooted satisfaction in my gut. Dawn and I had gone hiking alone and returned to our own slow and gentle lovemaking, since Dayna had been complaining about PMS and hadn’t been in the mood to join us. At least, we got away to make loveafter Dayna finished bitching Dawn out for making her wait so long to fuck me and losing out on precious screwing time.
   I finished up our kiss and then we turned away to hop into our cabins. No verbal goodbyes were needed. We’d see each other in another couple of minutes once I put our hiking gear away and changed out of my boots, and while Dawn cleaned up the evidence of our fornication.
   But before I could step away, Dawn stopped me and said.“Uh, Ben. Why don’t you head down to lunch without me? Dayna’s in there and we need to… uh… talk.”
   There was an extra innuendo in the way Dawn said the word“talk”, and I canted my head to the side inquisitively. Then it finally hit me. “Dayna’s waiting to suck my cum out of you, isn’t she?”
   Dawn blushed and looked at the floor.“Yeah…”
   Then I remembered all the other times Dawn took a long time to come out of her cabin, or other instances when she needed to“talk” to Dayna in the evenings instead of spending time with me. My eyes lit up. “You two have been hooking up for quickies all summer, haven’t you?”
   Dawn blushed even pinker and smiled mischievously,“Yeah…”
   I chuckled and then turned around, shaking my head.“See you at lunch.”
   The afternoon found the three of us lying out by the lake. I grinned to myself while ogling both Dawn and Dayna in their skimpy bikinis, my memory filling in the nakedness underneath what little their outfits covered.
   Dawn was just finishing up putting sunblock on my back while I finished doing my own chest, and then I held up the bottle to Dayna.“Want some?”
   “Sure… If YOU’LL put it on me,” Dayna said teasingly.
   I glanced at Dawn for approval, who just rolled her eyes and waved me onwards. Dawn still couldn’t figure out why I kept trying to get her approval for everything. After fucking Dayna’s brains out with regularity, you’d have thought I might eventually clue in that I no longer needed explicit permission every ten seconds.
   So I lathered up my hands and deftly undid Dayna’s bikini top while she lay on her stomach. And then the hot 18-year-old sighed happily while I began to rub the cream into her back.
   But then I remembered that Dawn had just finished doing my back. It wasn’t an uncommon thing since we were so close, the two of us doing everything in pairs together. And just the same, Brandi and Dayna wereusually paired up at all times. So I said with some concern,“You know Dayna, I can’t help but feel like we’re taking you away from Brandi somehow. Where is she?”
   “Oh, she’s off with Lucia and some other friends right now. Don’t worry about it. Besides, we spent all morning together while you and Dawn went on your ‘hike’.”
   “But this is the first morning you’ve stuck around camp. Every other morning you went with us, and Brandi was here all alone.”
   Dayna shrugged.“It’s my choice. Why? You getting sick of fucking me, Ben?”
   “Oh no, no.” I said hurriedly. Dayna’s body was a lush paradise I wanted to play in all day long. “Still, she’s not here now. Is it because she’s uncomfortable around me?”
   “Nah, don’t sweat it. We talked. She’s accepted that you’ve grown up, Ben.”
   I sighed.“If you say so.” I finished up with her back, dipping my fingers beneath the waistband of her bikini bottoms a few final times to cop a feel of her bare ass.
   Dayna giggled.“Wanna do my front?”
   My cock responded well enough.“Here?”
   Dayna laughed and glanced around at the other people nearby.“Maybe some other time.” She took the bottle out of my hand and prepared to do her own sunblock.TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2000
   I stopped outside of the Evans’ cabin and adjusted the straps on my hiking pack. Gear for two was heavy enough. But for the past few days, I’d had to bring an extra blanket and towel, plus snacks and water for Dayna as well, and the weight was starting to annoy me.
   Dawn smiled at me as she came out and then Dayna followed with a slight scowl on her face. I arched an eyebrow,“What’s wrong?”
   “Dawn’s what’s wrong,” Dayna bitched. “I still say she made me wait too long before we could start fucking.”
   I glanced at my best friend with a confused expression before returning my gaze to the elder Evans sister.“Huh?”
   Dayna rolled her eyes and shifted uncomfortably.“My period just started.”
   I rocked my head back. I knew enough about female biology to understand the basics. And Keira had been explanatory about how it was often just too messy and unpleasant to have sex during a woman’s period, especially for the middle heavy-flow days. “Oh.”
   “Whatever,” Dayna said as she laced up her hiking boots and came down the steps wearing a small fanny-pack for her personal items.
   I arched an eyebrow and glanced at Dawn.“You’re still coming?”
   “I’ve got a working mouth, don’t I?” Dayna grinned. “Besides, I’ve got a little surprise for Ben.”
   I looked at Dawn again, but she just shrugged, not knowing what was going on either. Dawn then warned me,“I’m due tomorrow myself Ben. Looks like you’re going to be out of luck for a little while.”
   Dayna grinned.“Not necessarily. Wait, and watch my little students.”
   Both Dawn and I arched an eyebrow at that. For a brief moment, I fantasized that Dayna was going to bring me a replacement while my girls were on the rag. Maybe Lucia Ramirez? The lovely Latina was smoking hot.
   Nah… Dream on… Lucia’s boyfriend was at the camp with us.
   We hiked out to our usual spot. We spread out the blankets and got into our usual positions, happily with me in the middle between the two beautiful blonde sisters.
   After exchanging some kisses all around, including me panting heavily while watching Dayna and Dawn lock lips right above my face, we all started to disrobe. Only Dayna kept her shorts on.
   After a few minutes of fondling and caressing, Dayna wound up on her back while Dawn straddled her face, riding her older sister’s tongue. She was also bent forward so that she could grasp and suck my dick while I lay on my side, and from the slightly awkward position, I was able to lean over and feast on Dayna’s breasts to my heart’s content.
   Eventually, Dawn rolled off, ready to be fucked. But I kept my face in Dayna’s tits.
   “Men…” she drawled and patted my head. I took the hint and gave one last suckle to a round boob before rolling onto my back and inviting Dawn to mount me.
   Grinning, the beautiful blonde 16-year-old hopped over while I fisted my cock and held it upright. Dawn then split her own pussy lips and sank herself onto me with a groan.“Oh, Ben…” she crooned.
   I just smiled and began to help my lover bounce up and down me while she clenched her pussy muscles, squeezing her already tight tunnel around my shaft.
   Meanwhile, Dayna moved up behind her sister, reaching one hand around to finger Dawn’s clit while her other hand came around to palm one of Dawn’s C-cup tits. “See? I can still be useful,” Dayna husked into her sister’s ear, licking it teasingly.
   “Oh, yeah,” Dawn agreed before moaning with arousal. And then together, Dayna and I worked to get the young blonde off. Later, after I spunked my load into Dawn’s snatch, the 16-year-old rolled onto her back and let the 18-year-old slurp everything out of her while I leaned over and french kissed my lover.
   So far, things were progressing the way they always had, whether Dayna was on her period or not. A little oral fun, some active lovemaking, and plenty of caresses and kisses.
   But now it was time for Dayna’s surprise.
   First, Dayna told Dawn to just sit back, watch, and learn. And then moving onto all fours like a cat stalking its prey, Dayna grinned wickedly and crept forward towards me.
   I wasn’t frightened by her expression. Even though Dayna’s smile was all teeth, the gleam in her eyes was all lust. And when she pounced, I was ready and let myself roll onto my back as the teenage vixen and I were soon engaged in some heavy liplocking while I let my hands roam all over the skin of her back.
   Eventually, Dayna worked her way down my chest and inhaled my prick, bobbing her head repeatedly and sucking powerfully to bring me erect, which didn’t take very long. And then she finished up with a couple of deep-throats, massaging my shaft with her throat muscles.
   Then came Dayna’s first surprise. She rolled onto her back across the blankets and beckoned me to her. It took a minute to figure out what she was asking, but eventually I was straddling her chest while Dayna giggled gleefully. And when she brought my cock down into the valley of her cleavage, I finally understood.
   “Oh, fuck!” I exclaimed when Dayna wrapped her pillow-like breasts around my shaft and squeezed them together, forming a tight tunnel of titflesh that send my mind on fire as much as it did my loins. And almost instinctively, I began to thrust in and out of that tunnel.
   “Fuck my tits, Ben. Fuck them. Don’t you love my tits? Aren’t they so warm and soft? Don’t they feel so good? Fuck my tits, Ben!”
   “Oh, I’m fucking them Dayna! I’m fucking them!”
   “Gawd you have a beautiful dick, Ben. I LOVE seeing it up close like this. Can you go a little further?” She gaped her mouth open. “Let me suck on it a little, please?”
   I groaned and shoved myself forward a bit, and when my balls were nestled into her cleavage, I had just enough length to push an inch and a half into her mouth, so that Dayna could nibble on my mushroom head.“Ohhh, that’s great, Dayna,” I complimented.
   “But Dayna!” Dawn whined from beside us, strumming her own clit. “My tits aren’t that big!”
   “Not yet, honey. You’re already big enough to try this if you want. But don’t worry. Look at me. Look at mom. You’ll get bigger in another year,” Dayna assured her. And then she went back to guiding her tits along my shaft.
   I just grunted and enjoyed what I had for now.
   “And Dawn, if you want, you can get him off on your chest, making him spurt in a big half-circle around your neck. That’s called a ‘pearl necklace.’”
   Dawn giggled,“Pearl necklace?”
   In another few seconds, I was going to show Dawn exactly what Dayna meant. Between the warmth of her titflesh and the occasional lick across my tip, I felt a coiling pressure in my balls and I groaned“ohhh…” as my body prepared itself to shoot.
   “Are you ready Ben?” Dayna cooed at me. “Is your big dick gonna start cumming all over my big tits? Are you gonna give me my necklace Ben? Don’t you want to see my chest covered in your pearly jizz?”
   “Ohhh… Dayna!” I grunted.
   Abruptly, Dayna released her grip on her tits, freeing my cock from its fleshy prison and she rapidly began jacking me with both hands, aiming me at the hollow of her neck. And when my ab muscles contracted and my hips jerked, she moaned,“Yes! Cum on me! Cum on me!”
   “Arrrghhh!” I grunted, and then the first shot flew out to splatter right against her collarbone.
   “Ungh!” Another shot flew out.
   “Ungh!” And another. And another. And all the while, Dayna kept jacking me and aiming, until I’d practically given her a pearl SHIRT instead of just a necklace. She didn’t just have little droplets circling her neckline. She had streamers running from her throat down across her chest. She was coated from both shoulders down to the tips of her nipples, and there were six distinct lines criss-crossing her chest at varying angles.
   “Holy SHIT!” Dawn exclaimed.
   “Wow…” Dayna panted and glanced down at her chest.
   “Urrgh,” I croaked and felt like passing out.
   Dayna started giggling.“Well, most boys don’t cum that much. I guess that means you REALLY liked shooting off on my chest, Ben.”
   “Urrgh…”
   “Mmm…” Dayna scooped up some of it with her fingers and popped it into her mouth. “Dawn, honey… can you help me clean this up?”
   The 16-year-old blonde smirked at me and then began to tongue up her sister’s chest, collecting a healthy glob in her mouth before moving over and depositing the load into Dayna’s mouth.
   While the two worked to clean themselves off, I found myself already stirring in anticipation of a third round of fucking. So what if Dayna was on her period? She clearly knew other ways of getting me off.“Wow, Dayna,” I said sincerely. “You’re amazing! That was a nice surprise.”
   Dayna giggled.“I’m not done yet. That was just the first surprise. And now I’ve got something even better for you.” And with that, now that she was mostly cleaned off, Dayna rolled over and grabbed her fanny pack. Unzipping the main compartment, she fished out a small bottle with a purple top and filled with a clear liquid. She grinned and then tossed it to me.
   “Astroglide?” I read the label and arched an eyebrow.
   “It’s a lube. Sometimes the girl just doesn’t get that wet. Or more importantly for today…” Dayna grinned. “It’s great for lubing up a girl’s asshole.”
   My eyes flew open and beside me, so did Dawn’s. “Asshole?” I stammered.
   “Yes, Ben. I want you to fuck my ass.”
   I’d gone rigid with momentary panic. I considered myself sexually experienced, but my first titfuck had already blown my mind and now the prospect of my first assfuck was frightening me. It sounded very interesting, but I didn’t know what to do.
   Dayna giggled and kissed me quickly on the lips, and then she took the bottle back.“Relax, Ben. I’ll do all the work. But you’re gonna enjoy this, I promise. Fucking a girl’s ass is the tightest, hottest thing you’ve ever experienced. It’s not for every day, but when you’re both in the mood, it’s even better than fucking pussy.”
   The heat in Dayna’s voice was extremely arousing, and I felt myself already beginning hardening up. But still, I wasn’t relaxed enough to make a move. Dayna sighed and then glanced at Dawn, who looked similarly shocked by her big sister’s proclamation to have me fuck her ass.
   “Dawn, come here, baby,” Dayna beckoned and the younger blonde moved over. Dayna gently pulled their faces together and then planted a tender kiss on her sister’s lips. “Mmm… don’t worry about it. I know what I’m doing. Now, why don’t you go make love with Ben a bit? Just have some fun and get you both in the mood.”
   Making love with Dawn was something we both could handle. Dawn smiled shyly at me and let Dayna nudge her in my direction. And when I reached my arms to her, my beautiful best friend tumbled against me and we came together to play with our lips and tongues. I wrapped her up tightly, and we quickly lost ourselves to our passion.
   “Oh, Ben, I love you,” Dawn gasped while her hand jacked my re-hardened rod.
   “I love you, too, Dawn,” I said in a deep voice while I rolled her over, spread her legs, and then re-entered my favorite pussy in the world.
   “Oh, Ben!” Dawn sighed as she felt me filling her up, and her legs came up to scissor behind my butt while I began to slowly pump in and out of her. And then she pulled my head down to kiss her once again.
   I could scarcely believe how short a time Dawn and I had been making love. Quite literally, it had only been 9 days previous when I’d taken her virginity and we’d begun our exploration of intercourse together. But in that short time, we’d learned each other’s pleasure spots and I knew exactly how to read her body. It was as if the sixteen years of being neighbors and friends had trained us to understand each other.
   Of course, we’d physically changed quite a bit in those sixteen years. Dawn had grown up into a striking young woman, her body lithe and lissome, without hint of fat anywhere. Her limbs had become long and toned, and I could feel her muscles as she flexed around me and clutched me tightly. Her breasts had gotten bigger without losing their firmness or perkiness, round globes of heaven pressing into my chest. And her incomparably beautiful face was that of an angel.
   My angel.
   And as I watched her face contorting and tightening with the pleasure wracking her body, pleasure that I was causing, I KNEW. Brandi was right. When you knew, you knew. I was in love.
   I was in love with Dawn. My Dawn.
   Forget Megan, my girlfriend. Forget Keira, my teacher. I was in love with Dawn. I’ll never understand why it was only in that moment that I realized it, just a few minutes after cumming all over Dayna’s chest.
   And I saw my love mirrored back at me in Dawn’s eyes.
   She smiled when she recognized my feelings for her. And then she came.
   She came HARD.
   It was everything an orgasm could be. Dawn clutched my back and buried her face into the crook of my neck, screaming at the top of her lungs. Her whole body tensed and her legs clamped around my lower back so tightly I was afraid she’d snap my spine. And after two seconds of her holding me with an incredible strength I didn’t know she possessed, her whole body started to vibrate.
   Dawn started shaking and screaming and clutching and grabbing and screaming some more. It was all I could do just to hang on, and her orgasm actually threw off my own timing. I’d been seconds away from joining her, filling my love with all my cream, but my orgasm didn’t come as I refocused on just keeping my body from being torn apart.
   And seemingly thirty seconds later, Dawn just went limp and passed out. And I was left hovering over her body with my dick still fully embedded inside her, throbbing with need.
   For a moment, I felt so close to climax that I was just going to rut inside Dawn’s unconscious body for a bit until I got myself off. But then Dayna’s twinkling laugh caught my attention. “Wow, Ben. You two are amazing together,” she remarked, admiring the blissful expression on Dawn’s face. “Now are you ready for the ride of your life?”
   I was sweating like a pig and flushed bright red with arousal. I’d been SOOO close to nutting inside Dawn right before she passed out, and my body was screaming at me to ejaculate. And as I glanced over, Dayna turned herself onto all fours, presenting her naked ass to me.
   She’d stripped her shorts and panties while I was making love to Dawn, leaving her alluring body in all its nude glory. Her heavy tits swayed gently, such full melons that yearned to be my handholds. She reached back with one hand to pull her asscheek to the side, exposing her dusky rosebud already slick with lubrication and slightly stretched out from where she’d no doubt been fingering herself. I saw the happy little trail of crinkled skin down to her pussy, wet and moist itself, and I even saw just the little white cord of her tampon, reminding me of what had spurred on this anal experiment.
   “Come on, Ben,” Dayna husked. “Fuck my ass. Ream out my tight ass and spurt all your hot cum into my bowels. Fuck my ass, Ben. Don’t you want to cum?”
   I wanted to cum. I wanted to cum badly, and so withdrawing my rock-hard dick soaked in Dawn’s natural lubrications, I moved over to behind her sister’s swaying backside and aimed my prick at that winking anus.
   “Ohhh… fuck me, Ben…” Dayna crooned while I nudged against her sphincter. And as I pressed my hips forward, the mushroom head popped into my very first asshole.
   “Ugh,” she grunted and then shifted her knees. I’d stopped once I got through, thrown off-balance by her sphincter suddenly giving way. And once we both got resettled, Dayna shot her hand out to grab my hip and tug me into her. So with my hands on Dayna’s narrow waist and her hand on mine, we pulled ourselves together.
   Dayna was right. Her ass was the tightest, hottest thing I’d ever experienced. Even with the copious amounts of lube she’d stuffed inside herself and Dawn’s honey on my rod, progress was slow. But it was exquisitely pleasurable. I was grunting, Dayna was moaning, and eventually, I was balls deep up Dayna’s 18-year-old ass.
   “Fuck!” Dayna gasped when she felt me hit rock bottom. “Feels like a fucking baseball bat inside me!”
   “So good,” I groaned.
   “You like that?” Dayna asked. “You like my ass? Fuck me good, Ben, and I’ll let you do it as often as you want. Even when I’m off my period, Ben. You can fuck my mouth and spew down my throat. You can fuck my cunt and fill my womb. And you can fuck my ass and fill my bowels with all your hot spunk. Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!”
   Dayna’s words were an audio aphrodisiac, and by the next time I blinked into awareness, I found that my body was already driving in and out of the sexy blonde’s rectum.
   “Fuck, fuck, fuck,” Dayna grunted repeatedly in time with my hips slapping her buttcheeks on every in-stroke. She’d moved her hand to her own clit, rubbing herself with a fury and I reached my arms around to take hold of her swinging breasts, gripping the large globes and squeezing them as I pistoned through her tight sphincter. This wasn’t like intimately making love with Dawn. We couldn’t look into each other’s eyes and see the warm affection and eternal love. All I saw was Dayna’s sweaty back, arched spine, and firm asscheeks being split wide by my dick. This was FUCKING.
   “Oh, Ben! Fuck me! I’m gonna cum! I’m gonna cum with your dick my ass. Fuck me! Yes! Yes! YES!!!”
   Dayna’s body locked up and her ass clamped down while her orgasm swept through her. She squeezed me even tighter so that my slow but steady pumping was brought to a halt, my cock trapped inside her vise-like grip. And the rest of her torso began shaking as the climax took over.
   “YES!!!” she shrieked again, and her body bucked once, violently, before her legs simply gave out and she collapsed straight down onto the blanket. I fell down with her, and the moment my heavy weight hit her back and my dick was driven an extra half-inch into her rectum, her ass muscles unclenched and I was suddenly spewing my load up Dayna’s asshole.
   “Urrrgh!” I grunted as I felt myself geysering forth a huge load into Dayna’s bowels. She was flat on her face, her body being compressed downwards by my weight while I was flat on top of her with my dick fully embedded up her backside. And oddly enough, my cheek was pressed against the back of her head, my face turned to the side so that I could see Dawn still lying unconscious beside us, that blissfully happy expression on her face.
   My abs tensed a few more times as I spat out my last few globs of semen into Dayna’s butt, and then there was nothing left but the quiet sounds of both Dayna and me panting for breath.
   Then Dayna chuckled, her breathing labored under my crushing weight.“Fuck, that was amazing, Ben,” she managed to croak. “We are sooo doing that again.”
   Chapter 5: Summer Camp IIITUESDAY, JULY 18, 2000
   “How was it?”
   “It was amazing,” I said, my eyes glittering as we stared off towards the setting sun. We weren’t on the ridge; our conversation was too private for that. But we found a nice clearing and could still see the red haze descending over the mountains. “It really was one of the most incredible experiences of my life.”
   “I wish I’d seen it,” Dawn said glumly.
   I chuckled.“You looked plenty happy with what we did.”
   “Yeah…” Dawn sighed. “I never thought I could pass out from too much pleasure.”
   I squeezed her hand tightly.“Me, neither.”
   Dawn bit her lip nervously.“Did she seem hurt at all by it?”
   I shrugged.“I don’t think so. Remember, she had a lot of time to prep and get herself lubed up.”
   “Well… I don’t think I’m ready to try anything like that, Ben. Even with my period starting tomorrow.”
   “That’s okay,” I said soothingly and squeezed her hand. “I love what we do. No pressure, remember? And that last time we were making love was beautiful, Dawn.”
   “It was.” She turned and kissed me softly. “I love you, Ben.”
   I grinned and felt the butterflies in my stomach.“I love you, too.”
   Dawn went silent and looked away from me.“Ben…”
   “Yeah?”
   My best friend took a deep breath and then swiveled her soft blue eyes right to me. And with mingled hope and fear, she asked,“Are you… IN love with me now?”
   I took a deep breath.“I think so…”
   Dawn fidgeted.“But what about your girlfriend?”
   “I was never IN love with her. I don’t think I’ve ever been in love before. Not real love.”
   “We’re sixteen. What do we know about real love, right?” She sighed and her voice turned forlorn. “But what about Mark? I’d feel terrible for breaking up with him.”
   I took a deep breath.“That’s for you to decide.”
   Dawn started trembling and I wrapped my arms around her, hushing her softly. Her jaw quivered and she said haltingly,“I thought it was just the sex talking. You know? Good orgasms and pleasant feelings. Wasn’t that supposed to be it? We were just friends having sex, right? We’re not supposed to fall in love, Ben. I shouldn’t. You’re leaving me in like ten days. What the hell am I supposed to do when yougo back to Orange County?”
   “I don’t know,” I sighed. “I don’t know.”* * *
   I still hadn’t figured things out by the time I needed to return Dawn home to her cabin. Her parents were lax about things like curfews while we were at camp, but I still knew not to push my luck.
   I knew I was going to passionately kiss her goodnight and tell her I loved her when I finally got her to her door, but I hadn’t figured out anything else besides that.
   Turned out, I didn’t need to. Another pair of people got our attention before we made it to Dawn’s cabin. And in a hurry, Dawn switched off my flashlight and shushed me with a finger to her lips.
   Ten feet in front of us, sitting on a log just twenty feet away from the Evans’ cabin and out of view from any window, were Brandi and Dayna.
   And they were kissing.
   My eyes went wide and despite the late hour, I felt my cock hardening at the sight of the gorgeous blonde whom I’d buttfucked that morning making out with my beautiful older sister.
   But when they broke apart for air, their words were anything but loving.“Dammit, Dayna, how come you never have time for me anymore?”
   Brandi’s whisper was forceful enough to carry towards us where we could hear, but probably couldn’t be made out by anyone at the cabin. Dayna sighed, “I AM spending time with you.”
   “You’ve been fucking Ben every morning since Dawn invited you. That used to be OUR time.”
   “But we still have the afternoons and the evenings and we sneak away for our quickies, don’t we?” Dayna soothed and stroked Brandi’s cheek. “It’s just sex.”
   “I know, I know. I’m just feeling left out,” Brandi pouted.
   “I keep inviting you to come WITH us!” Dayna insisted. “Then we could still play and you wouldn’t be left out.”
   “I can’t do that! Ben’s there!”
   “So? It’s not like he hasn’t seen a pair of tits before. Besides, you’ve seen HIM naked and fucking before.”
   “But this is different! Wasn’t it good enough when it was just you and me? Or even just you, me, and Dawn?”
   Dayna giggled.“There’s no substitute for a good dick, Brandi. And your little brother’s got a NICE one.”
   “Hmph. If I had a dick, would you still be my best friend?”
   “I AM your best friend!” Dayna protested.
   Brandi whimpered forlornly.“But now you spend more time eating out your own sister than me. What happened to us?”
   “C’mon, Brandi. We’re not lesbians. We LIKE cock. And I needed to get FUCKED. Sounds like you should too. Why don’t you hook up with Alfred? He’s been drooling all over you since you got here!”
   “Eww! He’s all scrawny and pale.” My sister said in a horrified voice. “And I’m not going to cheat on my boyfriend!”
   “Then don’t complain to me about not getting enough orgasms,” Dayna shook her head.
   “It’s not about sex! Dayna, I feel like I barely get to talk to you anymore!”
   Dayna sighed.“Look, I’m sorry if you feel neglected. I’ll make more time for us, I promise! C’mon, tomorrow afternoon, we’ll sneak away, just the two of us. We can talk and catch up and… maybe… have a little playtime, okay? I promise.”
   Brandi sighed.“Okay… You promised…” She took a deep breath and looked around. “C’mon, we should probably get inside before our parents freak.”
   “Yeah.” Dayna leaned in and kissed Brandi again. Then the two of them slipped off the log and headed inside to their respective cabins.
   I didn’t turn to look at Dawn until the doors closed. In the dim moonlight, I could just make out Dawn’s face. She didn’t look surprised at all. “You… and my sister?” I asked in a hesitant voice.
   I swore Dawn blushed, even though I couldn’t see it. “Yeah…” she replied softly.
   “Can I see that too?” I asked hopefully.
   Dawn just punched my shoulder.“You’re such a perve.”
   So much for our romantic goodnight.WEDNESDAY, JULY 19, 2000
   “My period started,” Dawn shrugged in apology when we met up in the morning.
   “Already?” I frowned. “I was hoping it wouldn’t come until this afternoon or something.”
   Dawn hugged herself.“I’m actually relieved. I mean, I love having sex with you, but since this is my first time having sex and all, it’s nice to know I’m not pregnant.”
   “Guess those pills really do work,” I nodded.
   Dawn then smiled nervously at me.“Still want to go hiking? I can still give you blowjobs. And…” Dawn’s smile turned into a grin. “Dayna won’t shut up about getting you to fuck her ass again. She’s in the bathroom making sure she’s all cleaned out.”
   My eyes lit up.“Let’s go!”* * *
   “Fuck! Fuck! Fuuuuuuuck!” Dayna’s hips gave one last wriggle and then she let her arms collapse down, leaving only her butt held aloft on wobbly legs.
   With a firm grip on her hips, I thrust forward a few more times before slamming myself in and holding myself there, my body jerking lightly while my dick spat out glob after glob of semen into the depths of Dayna’s bowels.
   When I’d finished and also caught my breath, I finally withdrew, smirking at the gaping wide hole I was leaving behind. Dayna’s anus was stretched lewdly, not even beginning to tighten back up after being held open for so long.
   “Wow…” Dawn gasped. “Doesn’t that hurt?”
   “A little…” Dayna sighed. “But it’s so wonderful…”
   Dawn just blinked while staring and Dayna slowly bent her knees in, lowering her ass towards the ground.“You wanna try it?”
   “Oh, no, no!” Dawn said hurriedly. “It still looks too scary.”
   “Why?”
   “I dunno. It just seems… weird. Like it’s not natural.”
   Dayna grinned.“What’s not natural about it? It’s a big hole that fits a cock, and it feels sooo good… Your asshole has like a hundred times as many nerves as anywhere else on your body. That means it can hurt if you don’t do it right. But if you DO do it right, oh… orgasm city!”
   Dawn looked dubious.
   “C’mon, lighten up Dawn,” Dayna encouraged. “I know… do you want to suck his cum out of me?”
   “Out of your asshole? Gross!” Dawn protested vehemently.
   “Fiiine…” Dayna drawled, panting softly. “It’s days like this I wish my tongue could reach my own ass…”
   “You’re such a cumslut, Dayna,” Dawn shook her head in disbelief.
   “You’d better believe it.”THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2000
   Thursday morning was a near repeat of the previous day. The three of us stripped and fondled and french kissed to our heart’s content. I wound up nursing on Dayna’s tits while Dawn blew me to completion, swallowing a couple of shots and then snowballing the rest into her big sister’s mouth.
   But then that morning turned out to be just the first of many boneheaded mistakes on my part. I would argue that hey, I was just a 16-year-old boy being led around by my dick. It was certainly accurate. And my dick was leading me to the most sexually willing female around, which meant Dayna, not the sweet girl I was falling in love with, Dawn.
   After my first orgasm, I offered to make out and finger Dawn to orgasm. But she didn’t want my hand going anywhere near her crotch, not even outside her shorts. So our sexual play continued with me kissing and sucking on Dawn’s tits while Dayna blew me to a powerful ejaculation.
   And by the third round, I wasn’t even paying attention to Dawn while I french kissed Dayna, and then sucked and pawed at her tits while she jacked me. Eventually, all of my focus was squarely on Dayna’s body while I buttfucked her to mutual screaming orgasms.
   Even the post-coital cuddling was with the elder Evans sister, my head happily pillowed on her big tits while we gasped and giggled together.
   Dawn took things in stride, but I should have noticed the slightly annoyed look in her eyes.FRIDAY, JULY 21, 2000
   Friday morning turned out to be more of the same.
   Dawn came out first and shyly asked,“Ben, would you mind if we went hiking alone? Just the two of us? It’s been fun and all with Dayna, but I kinda miss being alone with you.”
   Like a good friend I shrugged and answered,“Sure. No problem.” I was used to things being just me and Dawn from spending a good chunk of our lives joined at the hip, and I mentally squelched my mild disappointment at not getting the chance to fuck Dayna’s ass again.
   But before would could actually leave, Dayna came bounding down the steps in her hiking gear.“Are we going?”
   I blanched and wasn’t sure how to tell Dayna that Dawn wanted some “alone” time, so I left it to Dawn to deliver the news. Unfortunately, Dawn didn’t know how to turn down her big sister in this, so she just gave a weak smile and said, “Sure, we’re going.”
   I should have spoken up. I KNEW with certainty that Dawn wanted to be alone with me. But my dick wanted inside Dayna’s ass, so I kept my mouth shut. That was my second boneheaded mistake.
   The three of us went hiking. I got blowjobs from both Evans sisters while fondling their tits and warring with our tongues. And then we finished up with an explosive assfuck that left Dayna worn out and barely able to hike back to camp. Once again, I naturally spent most of my focus on the girl willing to take my dick inside her body.
   This time I did notice the slightly annoyed look in Dawn’s eyes. But I was too self-satisfied with my recent orgasm to pay it any mind.* * *
   Lunch was spent with me and Dayna exchanging naughty grins. And then the afternoon was for resting by the lake.
   “You look like the cat that ate the canary.”
   “Hmm?” I sat up a little straighter, turning my head to the side to glance at Brandi, who was laid out on the lounge chair beside me. Dawn was still annoyed with me and had gone to hang out with some of our other friends while I just rested from the morning’s exertions. Dayna, on the other hand, was passed out and snoring on the lounge chair on the other side of Brandi, effectively leaving me and my sister alone.
   Brandi just slowly shook her head.“You. You look so wiped out and yet you have this shit-eating grin on your face. Apropos given what you’ve been up to.”
   “Huh?”
   “Never mind. SAT word. Just, I know for a fact that both Dawn and Dayna are on their periods, and yet you’re still coming to lunch exhausted.” Brandi then tilted her sunglasses down and fixed me with a glare. “And since Dawn is still perky and playing frisbee with her friends while Dayna here is zonked out to the world, I’m assuming you’ve found my best friend’s predilection for anal play, little brother.”
   “Uh, hrm, well,” I stuttered for a bit before remembering my phrase. “A gentleman doesn’t speak of such things.”
   “A gentleman doesn’t fuck my best friend up her ass until she passes out and can’t gossip with me,” Brandi deadpanned.
   I just looked away and saw my salvation. Our parents plus our siblings were all coming over. I nodded in their direction.“The parentals and the kids are coming.”
   Brandi glanced over and then rolled her eyes. She sighed heavily and then asked quietly,“Just give me my friend back for a few mornings, okay? There’s barely a week of camp left and I miss her.”
   I shrugged.“Sure thing.”SATURDAY, JULY 22, 2000
   Honoring Brandi’s request turned out to be an easy thing, at least for one day. It wasn’t my choice. Our parents asked me to take the twins hiking to the Garden of Eden pool. Eden especially considered it “her pool”, referring to as “The Garden of Me”, while Emma was just looking forward to getting out of the camp for a little while.
   It was a good hour’s hike each way for a full-grown teenager. With the 10-year-olds, plus playtime, it would take all morning. I mentioned the trip to Dawn and asked her to keep me company. We might even find some time to sneak away for some makeout sessions, if not a blowjob or two. I thought it might even make up some of that “alone” time Dawn had been wanting. But we both knew I’d have to spend all my time chaperoning the little ones. It STILL wouldn’t be quality alone time, so Dawn declined, saying she wanted to catch up with some of her other friends she’d been neglecting while dedicating all her focus on me for the past three weeks.
   At least Gary Wong, one of my other camp friends a year younger, volunteered to go with me at the last minute. His little sister Jenny was also ten and wanted to hang out with the twins.
   Fortunately, even with the longer hike, we all made the trip easily. I’d built up some good endurance what with all my summer activities. Even besides the sex, swimming, volleyball, frisbee, soccer, and repeated hikes had gotten me to the point where I could hike for hours. Gary was in good shape as well, and the little ones were fountains of energy.
   Unfortunately, the girls burned themselves out at the pool and little waterfall at the Garden of Eden. We big brothers didn’t account for that and the return trip took almost 45 minutes longer. We even had to trade off piggy-backing the girls for part of the hike home. The end result was that we missed lunch, and all our friends and family were already gone by the time we got to the dining hall. At least our parents had set aside some extra food for us, and the five of us all wolfed it down quickly.
   Re-energized, the girls quickly took off straight to their afternoon activities and I headed back to my cabin to change and dump the hiking gear. I unpacked and then quickly hopped into the shower to rinse off the hiking grime and pool water, enjoying the quiet solitude of an empty cabin after listening to three screaming pre-teen girls all morning. Then I wrapped myself up in my towel and went to the bunkroom to change.
   It turned out, the cabin wasn’t as empty as I’d thought. As I walked into the room, a blonde head on my pillow immediately caught my attention and my heart leapt. Was Dawn waiting to greet me?
   She turned around and flashed me a smile, pulling the blanket away to reveal she was wearing just a skimpy bikini with loose shorts over her hips, her massive tits straining against the woefully inadequate cloth trying to restrain them.“Dayna?” I gasped in surprise.
   “I need your cum, Ben. Hurry up. I don’t know how long we’ll have the cabin to ourselves.” She sat up and beckoned to me with both hands frantically.
   “What? Here?”
   “Just a quick blowjob. I promise. Please? I need to taste your cum.” Her eyes went up pleadingly at my hesitation, and then she quickly reached back and pulled the string holding up her bikini top. “Here, you can play with my tits. It’ll make you cum faster.”
   My mind had not yet caught up, but my body certainly knew what to do. The sight of Dayna’s tits jiggling around in her bikini top coupled with the lustful expression on her face had my feet already moving me forward and my dick obscenely propping up my towel and threatening to pop through the opening.
   The towel soon became a moot point as I reached the bed and Dayna tugged it open. The towel fell to the floor and then I was standing naked in the bunkroom with an open door behind me while a topless Dayna Evans sat on my bed staring straight at my cock. If someone came in, there would be no explaining the situation away. And this would turn out to be my third consecutive day of boneheaded mistakes.
   Dayna’s hands went to my shaft at the same time that my hands went to her tits. I was still amazed and awed by her prodigious bosoms, her areolas seemingly bigger and a darker purple during her period and somehow even more sensitive as I flicked the nipples with my thumbs. She moaned for a moment before moving her head forward and capturing my cock in her mouth. And the next time she moaned, I could feel the vibration all the way down to my feet.
   I squeezed her tits a few more times while she bobbed back and forth along my rod, and then I managed to grunt,“Let me fuck your tits for a bit.”
   Dayna quickly agreed, backing off just enough to lay my shaft into her cleavage, and then she compressed her own titflesh around me so that my head poked up through her tunnel, and then she was bucking her chest up and down me while grinning happily.
   “You like that, Ben? You like seeing your dick in my big tits? That’s it! Fuck my titties! Fuck them!” she urged me on while my hips began to gyrate. “Fuck my tits and then cum in my mouth! Don’t you want to watch me swallow your big load Ben? I’m a slut for cum. I’m a slut foryour cum, Ben!”
   She’d been right. It was going to be quick. I’d gotten rather used to cumming at least twice before 10am, and now that it was after 1pm, I groaned as I felt the pressure in my balls build up to the boiling point.
   Dayna realized this and she released her tits, instead ducking her head back down and swallowing me all the way down to my base, deep-throating me so that she could even take a couple of licks at my sweaty balls. And that did the trick.
   I grunted a warning and Dayna pulled back just until my cockhead was in her mouth again, and as she jacked me with both hands, I began spunking straight onto her tongue.
   “Mmm…” Dayna moaned while I sent blast after blast of heavy cream into her mouth, and she drank down every drop like a pro.
   “Ungh! Ungh!” I grunted, until at last I’d squirted out every drop. And with her mouth still on my cock, Dayna rolled her sky blue eyes up to me, a twinkle in her gaze as she smiled around a mouthful of cock and cum.
   “Ben! Dayna!” came a shrill voice and for a second I panicked. What if one of my sisters had just seen that? I whirled around, pulling my cock out of Dayna’s mouth and I immediately hopped onto the bed and tried to pull the covers over my crotch.
   “Dawn!” Dayna exclaimed a second later and I looked up just in time to see my beautiful blonde best friend standing in the doorway with a surprised look on her face.
   I sighed and relaxed,“Thank god it’s you.”
   Dawn looked back and forth between me trying to cover up and her topless sister with some droplets of cum still on her lips, and she glared angrily at us. She barked accusingly,“What are you doing?”
   “Uh…” I stammered in surprise. Dawn actually looked angry and I didn’t know how to react, staring at Dayna for help.
   “Nothing,” Dayna shrugged, her tone as if to say ‘well-DUH’. “Just gave him a blowjob since we missed the morning hike. Nothing we haven’t done before.” Matter-of-factly, Dayna picked up her bikini top and began to put it back on.
   Dawn’s jaw went up and down twice without any sounds coming out, looking thoroughly confused by her own feelings for a moment. “Oh, right…”
   I arched an eyebrow and Dawn shook her head, still fighting her emotions and trying to keep herself calm.“Just surprised me that’s all. I came looking for Ben. I wasn’t expecting to see you here.”
   “Whatever. I’ll see you guys later.” Dayna got up and pecked my cheek, then headed out the door.
   Dawn watched her go and then shrugged at me. In a hurt voice, she said,“Well… I WAS going to find you and give you some relief since I figured you’d gone without all morning.”
   I smiled.“Well, she didn’t really kiss me. And I’d really like to kiss you Dawn.”
   “Really?” Dawn got her first expression of real hope.
   “Yeah, c’mere.” I put all my love and warmth into my facial expression, pulling her into my arms and tossing the covers back so that I could pull the blonde teen onto the bed with me. I kissed her firmly once before breaking away for a moment. “Hang on. Let me put my shorts on at least. I don’t want one of the kids walking in on us.”SUNDAY, JULY 23, 2000
   Brandi’s wishes or not, I wasn’t in any position to turn Dayna down when she showed up to go hiking on Sunday morning. She met me outside my cabin with a kiss and then husked into my ear how she really missed getting her ass fucked the previous day.
   But when Dawn didn’t rapidly emerge, Dayna got annoyed and went in after her.
   A few minutes later, Dayna re-emerged without her younger sister.“Dawn’s feeling sick, probably something with her period. She’s TOTALLY not in the mood and just wants to hang out today.”
   I frowned, thinking that our hike was being cancelled.“Oh,” I sighed, disappointment obvious on my face.
   “Still,” Dayna leaned into me, pressing those big tits against my chest. “WE can go have some fun.”
   “Really?”
   “Yeah, no problem. Let’s go. I’m feeling particularly horny today, Ben. What do you say we see how many times I can get you to cum in my ass?”
   The sex that followed was INCREDIBLE. But it was also my final and fatal mistake.* * *
   Brandi was in the cabin when I got back from my hike. She was kneeling on the floor and bent over, rummaging into her suitcase for something while wearing only a skimpy bikini bottom. And despite having spunked three times into Dayna’s rectum that morning, I couldn’t help but feel aroused again as I looked at my older sister’s tight ass just barely concealed by some very sheer fabric. In fact, the dark blue material was so thin that I could clearly make out the crevasse of Brandi’s butt-crack, and it didn’t take muchto be able to imagine what her ass looked like naked.
   “Wow…” I drawled.
   Brandi popped her head up in surprise and quickly turned around.“Ben!”
   I just kind of stared at her goofily, idly wondering what it would feel like to fuck my older sister up the butt. After the sexual marathon Dayna had just put me through, I still had sex on the brain.
   “Ben?” Brandi said a little more nervously and self-consciously, she put an arm across her chest to obscure her tits while she pulled out the shorts she’d been rummaging for over her crotch. “Quit looking at me like that. I’m your sister for crying out loud.”
   I shook my head to clear it.“Oh, oh, sorry.”
   She sighed.“Is Dayna back yet?”
   “Uh, yeah, I guess so.”
   “Youguess so? Weren’t you with her?”
   I blushed and let a goofy smile come back to my face as I remembered what we’d been doing that morning. “Yeah…”
   Brandi exhaled heavily and got a pained look on her face.“Ben, I thought you were going to give me my friend back.”
   “I was!” I shrugged. “I didn’t do anything. Dayna came to me and asked me to go hiking. She wanted to… well… you know…”
   Brandi bowed her head and closed her eyes.“Yeah… I know… She used to want to do those things with me,” she said dejectedly. “And now we’re going home on Saturday and there’ll be no more time.”
   I flashed back to the memory of Brandi complaining to Dayna about feeling neglected. I stared at the floor feeling guilty for truly having a hand in making my sister unhappy.
   My sister sighed and shook her head, and then with a pained face she admitted what I already knew.“Dayna used to be my friend the way you and Dawn are friends.” She emphasized the word “friend” to make clear her sexual innuendo.
   When I didn’t look surprised, she chuckled, “You knew, didn’t you.”
   I just nodded.
   Brandi shrugged.“We spent all last summer experimenting with each other, and a few summers before that. It used to be us and Dawn as the threesome for a couple of weeks this summer. But then YOU stuck your big dick in the way.”
   “Come on, Brandi. It’s not like I was trying to steal her.”
   Brandi just stood up and put her shorts on, then started pulling a scrunchy over her hair while she collected her sunglasses and beach towel. In that same defeated tone, she remarked,“I always knew she was going to leave me for a boy this summer. The girl is a nympho and she NEEDS dick. Thought it would be Greg Kinomoto for a while. Never thought it would be YOU.”
   My sister just shook her head sadly and then walked out the door, leaving me in stunned silence.* * *
   “Ben! Where the hell WERE you this morning?!?”
   I felt a healthy shove into my side and I stumbled before regaining my balance. I turned my head and barked,“Dawn! Why’d you push me?”
   She pushed me again.“Where the HELL were you!”
   I staggered back before righting myself. My jaw waggled in disbelief.“With Dayna! Where else would I be?”
   The slap came out of nowhere. Her hand hit my cheek with such force that not only did my head rotate around, but my whole body twisted with the impact. I didn’t even scream “OWW!” until about five seconds after she hit me it took so long for me to get over the shock.
   “MotherFUCKER,” Dawn hissed at me.
   “What the hell?” I squalled. “I thought you knew?”
   “KNEW? Knew that my boyfriend, the man who says he LOVES me, would go off ALONE with my SISTER to fuck like BUNNIES? KNEW? How the fuck was I supposed to know THAT you lying, cheatingbastard?!?” Dawn raged.
   “Whoa! Whoa!” I held my hand up in defense against another slap and simultaneously glanced around to see if anyone else was around. Fortunately, we were alone on a relatively empty path between the cabins and the dining hall for lunch, although I wasn’t certain how long that would last.
   My right hand warded Dawn away from me while I held my cheek in my left hand.“I thought Dayna went in and talked to you! She said you weren’t feeling like joining us because of your period or something.”
   “I WAS! I told her I wanted to hang out around the camp! I didn’t think you’d ABANDON me to go fuck my big-titted slut of a sister!”
   “But… but…”
   “But WHAT, Ben?” Dawn howled right in my face. Behind her, I did see an older couple come down the path, but one look at the 16-year-old she-devil screaming and waving her hands and the older couple turned and headed for a different route.
   I apparently didn’t answer her quickly enough while I watched the other couple moving away, because Dawn grabbed my shirt and shook me. “But WHAT, Ben? You know, I didn’t think it should bother me when I caught you two yesterday when she was giving you a blowjob. But it DID bother me. But you know what? That didn’t bother me NEARLY as much as finding out you two LEFT ME BEHIND to sneak off and go fuck each other silly!”
   “But Dawn, you weren’t feeling in the mood this morning. I thought it’d be okay.”
   “Well, it WASN’T okay, Ben. You were supposed to be mine. We were talking about love and boyfriends and girlfriends. But boyfriends don’t sneak off with your sister behind your back, Ben! Yeah, I got horny one time and thought it would be fun to have a three-way with my sister. Big fucking mistake THAT turned out to be!”
   “Dawn!” I reached forward to take her arm.
   “Don’t touch me!” she yelled and shrugged out of my grasp. Turning away, she spat, “I hope you two are happy together!” And then she walked away.
   I sighed and felt my heart cracking. Oh, SHIT.* * *
   Dawn pointedly ignored me during lunch. This was far the first time we’d had a fight like this at camp. You can’t grow up with someone your own age for sixteen years without having a couple of arguments that result in both kids trying to pretend the other didn’t exist. But we hadn’t had such a fight since we were twelve and the fact that Dawn and I were sitting at opposite ends of the table had everyone’s attention.
   My mom just looked at me curiously while Mrs. Evans gave me a dark look. I couldn’t even bear to glance in Mr. Evans’ direction.
   The situation certainly wasn’t helped when Dayna quickly sat beside me, giggling and pinching my leg before she realized that all eyes were on her, and her own mom gave her an even darker look than the one she’d flashed to me.
   And when Brandi arrived with her food, she took one look at me and Dayna sitting beside each other and then promptly went to the other end of the table to sit with Dawn.
   I sighed and stared at my food. I physically felt ill inside knowing that Dawn was mad at me. No one had warned me about this part of feeling in love. I mean, people had talked about aching when they were separated from the people they cared about, but I’d never felt this way being away from Megan or Keira. But with Dawn sitting on the opposite end of the table and not even glancing in my direction, I felt like there was a knife embedded in my heart and it was rotating with every tick of the clock.
   Lunch couldn’t end fast enough.
   Even when it was over, Dawn and Brandi quickly hustled away. And before I could follow them, my mom quickly pulled me aside. Across the room, I saw that Mrs. Evans was doing the same with Dayna.
   “Ben, what’s going on?” Mom asked in a gentle voice that nonetheless had an edge beneath it.
   “It’s complicated Mom.”
   She sighed.“Complicated, huh? Did you have sex with Dayna?”
   I blinked twice and glanced down. She already knew; she was just looking for confirmation. And I wasn’t any good at lying to my mother. “Uh, yeah.” But then I added defensively, “But it’s not that simple.”
   “Not that simple? Explain.”
   I bit my tongue and tried to figure out how to word my next sentences. I wouldn’t outright lie to my mom, but there was no way I was going to say that Dawn and Dayna had been having sex with each other for the past year and that Dawn had initiated the three-way between us. Instead, I came up with, “Well… uh… Dawn knew about it.”
   “And she approved?”
   “Well, yeah,” I shrugged.
   “Does she still approve?”
   I gulped.“Apparently not.”
   “And you had sex again with Dayna anyways?”
   I frowned and stared at my shoes.“Well, uh… I didn’t know that Dawn didn’t approve anymore.”
   My mom reached up and grabbed my head, turning it to face her while she squeezed my cheeks almost painfully. Nervous, I couldn’t quite meet her gaze but she stared into my eyes nonetheless. “Lemme guess. When you had sex with Dayna before, Dawn was there, watching?”
   I gulped. My mom was getting a little too close to the truth for comfort.“Yes’m,” I answered tonelessly.
   “And this last time, you went and had sex with Dayna WITHOUT Dawn.”
   I sighed.“Yes’m.”
   “Was this the first time?”
   I was about to answer yes, but then that time Dayna gave me a blowjob in the cabin popped into mind. I hesitated just long enough for my mom to state,“I’ll take that as a ‘no’.”
   She sighed and dropped her hands from my face.“Ben, you’ve got a lot to learn about women. I’m glad you’re learning with friends I can trust, but you’ve got a LOT more to learn. First rule: don’t EVER do anything behind a girl’s back.”
   “But I thought Dawn knew—”
   “You THOUGHT,” my mom interrupted. “To assume is just to make—”
   “An ‘ass’ of ‘u’ and ‘me’,” I finished. “I remember.”
   “Apparently you didn’t,” my mom glared. She shook her head and then waved me away. “Go on. Fix this like a man, Ben. I’ll talk to Dawn’s mother.”
   Pinching my lips together, I fled. I HAD to find Dawn.* * *
   As expected, Dawn and Brandi were lounging by the lake, side-by-side. There was no sign of Dayna. I assumed her mom was still grilling her.
   I stopped twenty feet away from them and felt my heart aching. They were both so beautiful, so peaceful as they reclined in their sunglasses and bikinis. It was such a perfect picture: two lovely ladies amidst the green grass, rolling mountains, and deep blue water.
   My eyes lingered on Dawn for a long few moments, drinking in her luscious curves and exposed skin. I’d spent my entire life watching her grow up from fellow drool-factory to rambunctious toddler to gawky pre-teen and finally to the gorgeous woman before me. The thought of losing her frightened the hell out of me.
   I had to come up with the right words. I had to apologize. I had to show her my undying love and tell her we’d be together forever. We’d get married and have kids and be with each other always.
   I stepped forward and then Dawn’s voice rang out loud and clear. “Go away, Ben.”
   “But Dawn—”
   “Go the FUCK away. I’m not talking to you.” And then Dawn rotated her head away.
   I felt like I’d shrunk back down to 5’2”. Dejectedly, I turned around and walked back the way I’d come.* * *
   “Bennie, why are you crying?” Eden prodded my shoulder, rocking my body back and forth.
   “Did you hurt yourself?” Emma chimed in from in front of me. “You don’t look hurt.”
   I felt hurt. When Dawn had first gotten angry with me, I had just been bewildered, not understanding where the anger was coming from. At lunch, I’d just been confused, but certain we would work it out. Only after Dawn ordered me away from her by the lake had I finally realized this wasn’t to be some quick argument and everything would be normal after an hour. She was really mad, and I was beginning to get scared that Dawn might not evertalk to me again. And the thought of losing my best friend absolutely CRUSHED me.
   I blinked the tears out of my eyes and rolled over, Eden just skipping out of the way before I crushed her behind my back.“Are you okay?” she asked.
   “I’m fine, I’m fine.”
   “Is it because you and Dawn had a fight?” Emma asked.
   “Yeah, something like that.”
   “Can we help?” Emma added.
   “Uh, I don’t think so,” I said while sitting up and wiping the tears out of my eyes.
   “Well, can you two make up already?” Eden pouted. “We want s’mores tonight and Dawn’s the best. You and Dad just keep flaming them.”
   I knew my plan then. I would go to the marshmallow roast and talk to Dawn there. We’d be in a public place with lots of friends and family around, so she couldn’t brush me aside so easily. I HAD to talk to her, to say SOMETHING that would get her to at least like me again, even if she didn’t love me anymore. We’d been friends forever. We HAD to work it out.
   “Okay, let’s go guys,” I stood up with newfound confidence. “I won’t flame your marshmallows.”&lt; FOOM&gt;
   “Aw, crap!” I frantically shook the marshmallow on the end of my stick, trying to put out the flames. It was too late. By the time I put it out, the big ball of sugar was a blackened husk.
   “Ben!!!” Eden whined. “That’s the third one in a row!”
   “Look, if you guys are so good, why don’t you just do it yourself!” I turned and barked at my baby sister. “You’re certainly old enough to make them on your own!”
   “Because you’re our big brother! You’re supposed to be good at stuff like this!” Emma whined.
   “Here girls,” Dawn stepped beside us so suddenly that I jerked back. I hadn’t even known Dawn had shown up to the marshmallow roast and my jaw went up and down a few times as I struggled for something to say. But Dawn simply handed over two sticks anointed with perfectly golden-crisped marshmallows to the twins, smiled, and then turned away.
   “Thanks Dawn!” “Thanks Dawn!” the twins chimedalmost in unison.
   By the time I got my mouth under control, Dawn was already walking away, Brandi right by her side.
   “Sorry, Bennie. But we like Dawn better than you. It’s too bad we’re stuck withyou as our brother,” Eden giggled as she daintily removed her marshmallow and began making her s’more.
   I sighed. Traitors… Shoot me now.MONDAY, JULY 24, 2000
   I’d slept like shit. First, I hadn’t been able to go to sleep until something like 2am. Then, I hadn’t been able to STAY asleep, waking up several times. And by the time I managed to remain unconscious for more than an hour straight, it was morning and my other family members were up and puttering around, leaving me in a semi-conscious daze for a few hours.
   By the time I actually got up, everyone else had left the cabin. And when I went over to the Evans cabin, they were all gone as well.
   Dawn. I had to find Dawn.
   She wasn’t in any of the obvious locations. Not many people were by the lake as it was still cold out. She wasn’t in the lounge playing pool or ping-pong. And our families weren’t big on the whole breakfast thing, instead just grabbing cereal or snacks on our way out to start the days, so she wasn’t in the dining hall.
   So then I started hopping in a big circle around the camp for our usual chatting spots. While I ran into several other friends and various couples looking for their own semi-privacy, I never saw Dawn or Brandi. But I DID eventually run into Dayna.
   “Have you seen Brandi?” she fidgeted as she asked me.
   “No. Have you seen Dawn?”
   Dayna sighed.“No. They’re probably together.”
   “I’m guessing so.” Already my head was whipping left and right for a new direction.
   “Ben?”
   “Yeah?” I glanced back to Dayna for a second, only giving her half my attention as I was already antsy to continue my search.
   “Ben, stop.” Dayna grabbed my hands to still me and make sure she had my attention. And once I finally settled my focus onto her, she took a deep breath and looked straight at me. “Ben, I’m sorry.”
   “About what?”
   “For… for seducing you.”
   I snorted.“I wasn’t very hard to seduce.”
   “You weren’t. But still, I had a long talk with my mom and I know that what I did wasn’t right. Playing around with you and Dawn was one thing. But I shouldn’t have sneaked the blowjob or taken you alone on that hike. Those things were crossing the line, and I’m sorry for it. It’s my fault that Dawn and Brandi aren’t talking to us.”
   I shrugged.“It takes two people to have sex. It’s as much my fault as yours. I could have said ‘no’.”
   Dayna grinned slyly and folded her arms under her breasts, pushing them together and higher. She was wearing a three-button polo, and with all three buttons undone, I had a nice view of her cleavage.“Could you have said ‘no’?”
   I gulped.“Uh, well, sure…”
   “Ben…” Dayna said softly and lowered her eyelids halfway. She arched her neck and pouted sexily. “You know I just finished my period. Would you like to cum in my tight pussy? It’s been a week already.”
   My erection was throbbing inside my shorts and I felt an inky cloud of arousal swamping my brain. My lips quivered.“Uh… well…”
   Like someone had thrown a light switch, suddenly Dayna was standing up straight and returned her face to normal. I blinked and backed my head up at the sudden change.
   “See?” Dayna stated. “You’re just a guy, Ben. And a 16-year-old at that. Even with everything going on, I could have fucked you right here, right now. Besides, I’m the older one. It’s not your fault, Ben. And I need to make this right. It’s both my best friend and my sister we’re talking about.”
   I sighed and tried not to stare at Dayna’s tits. “Mine, too.”
   She nodded.“Okay, we gotta find them. Let’s split up and if either one of us finds them, bring them back to the cabins before lunch, okay?”
   I nodded.“Got it.”
   “Put yourself in Dawn’s head. Where would you go when you were mad? I’m doing the same for Brandi.” Dayna turned and headed in a different direction, “Good luck!”* * *
   I watched Dayna run off, my mouth watering as I watched her butt muscles clenching in her tight shorts. But I quickly shook the thoughts from my head. Where would Dawn go?
   If I were her, I’d go somewhere private. I’d go somewhere I felt safe. And I’d go to a place that made me feel good.
   No. She wouldn’t go THERE, would she? It was OUR place!* * *
   I heard them before I got there. Soft voices, definitely feminine. On instinct, I got as quiet as possible and crept up behind the final set of bushes separating me from the clearing. And then my eyes went wide as saw what they were doing.
   Dawn and Brandi were both completely naked and lying side-by-side on the blankets. They were pressed chest-to-chest, Brandi’s leg thrown over Dawn’s hip as they ground their crotches together and softly kissed. Dawn brought her hand up and gently rubbed at Brandi’s tit, and my eyes went even wider as I drank in my older sister’s naked body.
   I’d known that my sister was attractive and popular with the boys. She had frequent dates and I was pretty sure she wasn’t a virgin. But apart from the occasional wayward glance when I was really horny, I’d never really looked at her as a sex object. But now it was impossible not to think of it.
   She was just a bit shorter than Dawn, but had the same lithe figure with narrow waist and only a slight swelling outward to her hips. Her legs were toned and firm; and she had a taut stomach from healthy eating and lots of exercise. After all, she could still beat me at swimming and other sports. And as the girls turned, I could see that Brandi had a healthy set of tits on her, nothing too big, but nice handfuls with small areolas and dark nipples. And to my surprise, I found that her labia were shaved bare, just like Dayna’s, revealing her pink pussy.
   I couldn’t help it; I was popping a boner staring at my sister. But presently, both girls sighed and rolled away from each other, shaking their heads sorrowfully.
   “It’s not the same, is it?” Brandi asked.
   Dawn shook her head.“No… I wish Ben was here…” she said dejectedly.
   “I wish Dayna was here,” Brandi agreed. “Not even to make out or have sex. I just… I miss my friend.”
   “Yeah…” Dawn sighed. “But Ben’s such a stupid… stupid… BOY!”
   “Boys, by definition, are stupid,” Brandi mumbled. “Believe me, I KNOW.”
   “That’s no excuse. He’s Ben. He should have known better.”
   “DAYNA should have known better,” Brandi insisted with some anger in her voice. “It’s not the first time she’s gotten too attached to a boy she shouldn’t have. Terry Marsh broke up with his girlfriend because Dayna was flirting with him and he thought he had a shot with her. I just never figured Dayna would do it to her own sister.”
   Dawn just shook her head.“Doesn’t matter. If Ben was half the man I thought he was, he wouldn’t have gone behind my back.”
   “Look, I’m not defending what my brother did. But you have to know he didn’t even realize he was hurting you. He’s just a boy and Dayna is… well, Dayna. She’s just too gorgeous. She’s charming and she’s flirty and her tits draw boys like bees to honey. She could walk up to almost any man in this camp and demand that he fuck her, and they probably would, marriage or not.”
   Dawn sighed.“I KNOW he didn’t even realize it. You should have seen him when I went to confront him with it. He had no idea he’d done anything wrong. I think THAT pisses me off even more. I’m more mad at him for being a clueless moron than I’d be if he’d consciously gone with her.”
   “You’re just kids, Dawn,” Brandi reasoned. “And girls develop faster than boys. He only lost his virginity what, a few months ago, right? And he hasn’t learned how to put the brakes on his penis yet.”
   Brandi sighed.“I love my brother. He could be an annoying brat sometimes, but he’s growing up. He’s a good guy, which I’m sure you already knew. He really is one of the ‘nice’ guys: a bit of a nerd, patient with Brooke, and he’s so sweet with the twins. Let me put it this way, if there was a boy myage at school that wasexactly like Ben, I’d instinctively know he was someone I could be comfortable around. I might not necessarily be attracted to him, the bad boys ARE sexier, but I’d know he was a nice guy. And nice guys like that are just helpless when a hot chick like Dayna comes on to them. Their brain short circuits through their dick and girls like us can just walk all over them.”
   Dawn shook her head, letting that sink in for a minute. And then she quietly asked,“Why are you defending Ben, Brandi?”
   “Because you two are special. Someday, Dawn, you and Ben are going to get married. Maybe not until you’re thirty, but you’re going to get married. We all know it. Why do you think our parents are so casual about letting you and Ben go off and fuck like bunnies whenever you want? Even me and Dayna still have to sneak around,” Brandi chuckled. “And well, you’re going to have to get used to bumps in the road like this while you wait for Ben to grow up.”
   “But what about Dayna?”
   “Oh, we have spats all the time,” Brandi waved. “She’s the kind of girl who needs a lot of attention. So me giving her the cold shoulder for a while is my way of punishing her and reminding her how much she wants me around. I’m probably going to forgive her by dinner time.”
   “You really think I should forgive Ben?” Dawn asked softly.
   “Yeah. You’re friends, Dawn. And he loves you. He told me like a week ago and I can see it in his eyes. He’s not in love with Dayna. He’s in lust with Dayna, but then so are most of the guys around camp. He LOVES you.”
   “But what’s the point? You guys are going back home on Saturday.”
   “That just means you’re running out of time to enjoy this summer. His thing with Dayna meant nothing. It’s just sex. You said you and him only have sex missionary or with you on top, looking into each other’s eyes. You twomake love, Dawn. Why waste another day?”
   “Why even try? It’s not like he can be my real boyfriend. We live hundreds of miles apart.”
   “You’ll always love each other Dawn. You’re young. Enjoy your life. Have some fun. And who knows what will happen when you guys get to college? You’re both coming to Berkeley with us, right?”
   “As long as I get in, yeah.”
   “Ben, too,” Brandi said assuringly. “And for now, let me put it this way, would you rather spend the next week avoiding him? Or spending every second possible together?”
   Dawn smiled.“Together…”
   “Good.” Brandi grinned then. “So… do you want me to give you an orgasm? You can pretend it’s Ben.”
   “No. I like that idea of ‘every second possible’. And I’m going to find Ben RIGHT NOW,” Dawn said with certainty, and she was already reaching for her clothes.
   That was my cue to leave. As much as I wanted the“togetherness” to start right away, I instinctively knew the girls wouldn’t react favorably to knowing that I’d spied on them. So with infinite care, I slipped away.* * *
   I was sitting on the porch in front of the Evans’ cabin when Dawn and Brandi arrived. Despite what I’d overheard, my beautiful best friend still looked mad. She rolled her eyes and snarked, “Hmph. I would have thought you’d go looking for me.”
   “I DID. I looked everywhere,” I said with exasperation. “The lake, the lodge, the ridge, all those little spots and logs where we used to go hang out.”
   Dawn shook her head.“You’re such a moron, Ben. You should have known where to find me. The one place that was special to US. The one place that always reminds me of YOU.”
   “I DID!” I blurted and then immediately tried to cover my mouth. So much for my instinct to keep them from knowing I’d eavesdropped.
   Dawn’s eyes went wide and then she turned to Brandi. My sister’s eyes went wide and self-consciously she began to cover her body.
   “What did you see, Ben?” Brandi barked as she stepped two feet towards me threateningly.
   “Uh, well…” I went pale as I remembered all the times my big sister had beaten up on me, the answer clearly written in my eyes.
   “Ah, hell,” Brandi tossed her hands as she realized I’d seen her naked.
   “Wait, you really did find us?” Dawn interrupted with an odd look in her eyes.
   I nodded hurriedly, and Dawn smiled.“I guess you’re not a complete moron.”
   “I wanted to talk to you. But you…” I glanced over at my older sister who was still shaking her head in disbelief that I’d seen her naked. “Well, you and Brandi were kinda busy.”
   “And did you stick around to overhear us?”
   I looked at the floor.“Y— Yes…” I answered nervously. Then I immediately picked my head back up. “Dawn, I’m SO, SO sorry. I didn’t realize. And I’ll never do it again!”
   Dawn rolled her eyes and sighed.“Look, I always knew you didn’t realize. And like it or not Ben, you WILL do it again. I know who you are. Since we were thirteen I could lead you around by your hormones whenever I wanted. You never pushed me, true, but I could make you do anything I wanted. And if another pretty girl walked in here and tried to seduce you, I’m pretty sure you’d go along with it.”
   “But I love you!”
   “I know. I love you too, Ben,” Dawn said sweetly as she sat on the bench beside me and wrapped her arm around my back. “I just have to accept that you’re my moron best friend and wait for you to grow up.”
   She smiled wryly.“I guess it’s a good thing we don’t live near each other. I’d make you my boyfriend and then get really, really mad at you every time you screwed up from now until you finally matured. At least this way I can get mad at boys like Mark and whoever while I wait for that day.”
   I blinked uncertainly and looked at the pleasant expression on Dawn’s face. “So… you’re not mad at me anymore?”
   “No. A little annoyed still, but you’re MY Ben as much as I’m your Dawn. And Dayna’s my sister. We’re all family. We don’t have a choice but to work it out. But I forgive you.”
   I smiled with complete and utter relief.“Dawn!” I reached my arms out and the cute blonde willingly leaned into my embrace, letting us both hug each other tightly.
   She felt so good. She smelled great, despite the sweat from her hike. She smelled like DAWN, and I felt my heart leaping up while her scent filled my nostrils. I felt the supple flesh of her body in my hands, I felt the heat of her cheek against my own, and that pleasant buzz was back in my body.
   Automatically, we both turned our faces to each other and then it was the most natural thing in the world to press our lips together. I felt a surge of energy push into my body when we touched, and we both moaned happily as we felt the reconnection of our souls.
   But a moment later, Dawn broke off to glare at me.“Just so we’re clear, you don’t do a THING unless I’m right there with you, got it?”
   “Got it,” I stammered. And then Dawn was back to kissing me again. I felt the flush of her body as she heated up, and her soft moaning became more urgent as she got ready to devour me.
   “Ahem,” Brandi cleared her throat, causing us both to turn to look at her, Dawn’s expression a little wild. “Maybe inside would be better for what you’re thinking Dawn. I’ll keep a lookout.”
   Dawn nodded hurriedly and practically dragged me inside the house and to the bedroom. She shut the door and then still with her arms around me, we tumbled onto her bed.
   For the next five minutes, our mouths never came apart. I wanted to make love to her, to move inside of her body, but I couldn’t bear to stop kissing her. I’d comethis close to losing her… forever. Melodramatic? Maybe. But that was how I’d felt.
   Of course, my body recognized that I had an aroused female beneath me. And when Dawn started grinding her crotch against my erection, I started getting an urge I couldn’t ignore.
   I pulled my head away long enough to gasp,“Oh, Dawn!” And in that break she reached down and ripped her tank top over her head before planting her lips on mine once again.
   I realized the path we had now set ourselves on and I pulled away to ask,“But aren’t you still on your period?”
   Dawn smiled.“It’s pretty much over. It’s okay.”
   It was okay. We could have sex! And we were about to have sex! And with an excited smile on my face, I helped her get her shorts off.
   Dawn removed her own bra while I pulled back to rip my T-shirt over my head. We grinned at each other, now knowing where this was heading and we both were in a hurry to get there. So I rolled onto my back to shuck my shorts and boxers while Dawn humped her hips off the bed to wriggle off her panties, and finally we were both naked in Dawn’s bed.
   There was no need for further foreplay. The excitement of reuniting plus five minutes of frantically making out had made us both more than ready for this. And as I rolled on top of Dawn into our favorite position, she hooked her legs over my thighs and beckoned me into her.
   “Oh, Ben!” Dawn gasped when I pushed into her, her hands squeezing my arms tight enough to make me stop. She hadn’t been stretched like that in a week while she’d been on her period, and it took a moment for her to get used to the sensation.
   But gradually, Dawn relaxed and I felt some of the tightness recede. And then the blonde 16-year-old beauty lay her head back and tugged on my shoulders to continue. And with a little pressure in my hips, I pushed my way forward.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” she sighed as I filled her up, all seven-and-a-half inches pushing through until I was buried to the hilt. I’d forgotten how tight she was, and we were so intimately joined that I felt like I could feel her heartbeat through her pussy.
   And then she was moaning,“Ohhh…” as I pulled back until the ridge of my mushroom cap just barely holding onto the insides of her labia, and then I pushed all the way in once again.
   “So good, Ben…”
   “So tight, Dawn…”
   “I love you…”
   “I love you, too…”
   “My Ben…”
   “My Dawn…”
   “Make love to me.”
   So I did.
   It was intense. It was incredible. It was a relief. With that one act of making love, all was forgiven. How could we not be happy together when we felt so good together?
   And it did feel SOOO good. Dawn clutched my heavier body to hers, crushing herself beneath me in such a wonderful way. I tried to support my weight on my elbows, but Dawn kept pulling on my back until I was literally burying her into the mattress with every thrust.
   I felt her orgasm building, and I called upon everything I had ever learned about sex to stoke her fire higher and higher. And at the last moment, when the climax finally burst through her body, Dawn grabbed my head and kissed me with all the love and passion she felt for me.
   I felt her body tense and her kiss set me off, and then I was firing my liquid love into the deepest recesses of Dawn’s body, filling her up and groaning in relief while we rode the ultimate high together. Her body jerked, my body jerked, and then we were both twitching and spasming as the ecstasy overwhelmed us. And then at last, our orgasms ended and our bodies’ needs for oxygen forced us to stop kissing and start breathing once again.
   I panted for a bit and then managed to turn my head to Dawn, who had her eyes closed but had the most beautiful smile on her face. I worried that she’d passed out again, but a moment later, her eyelids went up and that clear blue gaze stared right at me.
   “My Ben…” she said softly. “My best friend. My lover.”
   I smiled.“Forever and always.” And then I kissed her again.* * *
   Dawn and I were still kissing when Brandi poked her head into the bedroom.“Get dressed! We’ve got company!”
   Both Dawn and I popped our eyes open and then we were a comedy of errors as we simultaneously tried to get dressed as quickly as possible and as silently as possible, apparently two mutually exclusive goals.
   And then when I put my hand to the bedroom door, Dawn grabbed my wrist and shook her head‘no’. We both went quiet and then put our heads to the doorway cracks to listen.
   “But I’m all grimy!” DJ protested. “I need to take a shower!”
   “Go shower at Brooke’s place,” Dayna barked at her youngest sister. She must have arrived while Dawn and I were getting busy. “Besides, Dawn’s about to take a shower.”
   “Ugh! I HATE big sisters,” DJ whined.
   “I KNOW,” Brooke added. And then I heard feet stomping off down the steps.
   A moment later, Brandi poked her head back in.“Okay, Dawn you go take a shower. Ben, you’re going to have to jump out the window or something. Go!”
   I grinned at Dawn and we kissed one last time. It was nice being back to normal.* * *
   “You’re looking happy, Ben.” Mom smiled as she set her tray down across from me at lunch. “Did you and Dawn get things worked out?”
   I squeezed the hand of my best friend who was sitting beside me and saw the twinkle in Dawn’s sky blue eyes. “Yeah. We’re gonna be just fine.”
   “Dawn!” Eden said happily as she showed up as well. “Are you and Ben best friends again?”
   “Yeah,” Dawn smiled.
   “Cool!” Emma said brightly. “Are you both gonna roast marshmallows with us tonight? You know, you really should teach him how to be patient. Ben’s kind of a dork that way.”
   Dawn sighed and looked to me.“I know. But he’s my dork.”THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2000
   “Haven’t you guys already made up for lost time?” Dayna grinned as Dawn and I walked up to the cabins, Dawn limping slightly. “You look a little sore little sister.”
   Both Dawn and I blushed bright pink. It had been our third morning hike together since the fight, with both Tuesday and Wednesday mornings being frantic lovemaking sessions combined with our old chats about absolutely nothing. This morning, we’d gone five times, a personal record for me. By the fifth one I wasn’t that hard and I was practically shooting blanks, but Dawn came three times that last one herself.
   “I don’t suppose you tried it up the butt like I told you,” Dayna sighed wistfully. Brandi was standing against the porch railing beside her, and my sister just smirked and rolled her eyes. She never quite understood Dayna’s anal fixation.
   “No,” Dawn shook her head. “I don’t know that I’ll ever be ready for that. And Ben is perfectly good at wearing me out the old-fashioned way.”
   “I’ll say,” Dayna said again. “You’ve been exhausted for three days straight. And in SUCH a good way.”
   “Jealous?” Dawn couldn’t resist digging in.
   Dayna was about to answer, but she turned and glanced to Brandi first before shrugging.“I’d be lying if I said ‘no’. But I’m fine. We’ve only got two more days left anyways.”
   I saw a dullness go into Dayna’s eyes and surprisingly, she seemed to deflate just a bit. Without another word, she turned and started to walk back inside.
   I felt bad.“Just sex” or not, I had been quite intimate with the beautiful elder Evans daughter and I felt a tugging at my heartstrings as I saw her go from teasing to sad in half a second. I couldn’t help but feel that I was neglecting her in some way. And I was so busy staring in wonder at Dayna that I didn’t catch the looks that Dawn and Brandi were giving each other.
   So I didn’t notice anything out of the ordinary when Dawn turned to me and said, “Go unpack. I need to talk to your sister for a second.”
   “Sure thing.”* * *
   “Paddle this way, Ben.”
   I picked my head up and took a second to orient myself. The circular inner tube I was floating in had rotated around and I had to crane my neck to see where Dawn was indicating. The current had floated us closer to shore, and Dawn was directing us towards a quiet cove away from practically everyone. The lounge chairs curved along the beach far off to the right and then even further away was the waterslide and rope swing.
   I turned around and then back-paddled myself, scooping with both hands to go where Dawn wanted me, and soon we found ourselves nicely shaded by a big tree overlooking the lake as I lazily rotated around to face her. She reached out and grabbed my hand, and then I rotated over onto my stomach so that I could more easily look at my beautiful best friend.
   “What’s up?” I asked, knowing she’d pulled us over for a private discussion.
   “We need to talk about us.”
   “What do you mean?”
   Dawn looked at me with a sad, resigned expression on her face.“What’s going to happen in two days, Ben?”
   “We’re going home,” I sighed. “Away from each other.”
   Dawn nodded in understanding.“Are you going back to your girlfriend?”
   I shrugged.“I suppose. And you’ve got Mark.”
   “That’s what I mean. We’ve said all along we’re just friends… experimenting… but I DID fall in love with you, Ben. I’m not sure I can go back to Mark if I still feel in love with you.”
   “I don’t want to stop you. You deserve the chance to live your life. We’re just kids, Dawn. I mean, I think I’m in love with you, too. I KNOW our parents would probably be perfectly happy with that idea; but at the same time, they always tell me that I’m still just sixteen and I’m not old enough to know what real love is.”
   Dawn frowned.“Are you going to be okay knowing that I might be doing with someone else the same things we’ve been doing? Blowjobs. Sex. All that?”
   Involuntarily, I felt my jaw clench.“Well…”
   Dawn blanched and I quickly tried to put on a happier expression. I sighed,“I’m okay knowing it. Just don’t make me think about it, okay? I don’t want that picture in my head.”
   She blushed.“Sure, sure.”
   “Look, Dawn. This isn’t a choice. It doesn’t make any sense for us to be boyfriend/girlfriend. I can’t ask you for any commitments when we can’t be together eleven months out of the year. So it’s got to be like it always has been. We’re friends. I’ll always love you, and you’ll always be my best friend, but for now, that’s it.”
   “Okay.” Dawn nodded. “Okay…” she repeated as her eyes drifted to the side. Clearly she had something working in her mind.
   “What?”
   Dawn smiled and blushed.“Nothing.”
   “What?” I repeated, knowing she was hiding something from me.
   “Nothing!”
   “Dawn…” I warned.
   She just laughed and leaned back in her inner tube.“You’ll find out tomorrow.”
   I rolled my eyes and then reached to the handle of her inner tube. And with practiced ease, I flipped Dawn over.
   “Aaack!” she shrieked before splashing into the water, and five seconds later she came up sputtering. “You JERK!”
   Dawn immediately reached out for my tube to flip me while I frantically paddled away, grinning wickedly. Well, swimmers are always faster than paddlers. Thirty second later I splashed into the water.
   We were friends. Just like always.
   Well, friends that started kissing once we got back into our tubes.FRIDAY, JULY 28, 2000
   “Dawn, you’re hiding something from me.”
   “I want to play hide the penis. Got any good ideas for where I should put it?”
   “Dawn!”
   She giggled and kept working to take my shorts off. I lay back against the blankets, reclining on my elbows to let the beautiful blonde have her way with me. I even removed my own shirt while she stripped me naked below the waist.
   A minute later, Dawn reached around with one hand to pull her fine blonde hair out of the way while she bent and took me into her mouth, her soft pink lips stretching around my shaft as she worked her way down, taking about five inches before stopping and sucking.
   I sighed happily and just enjoyed the sensations. I had to, it was our last hike. The next morning we’d be packing up and driving home. So with a bit of fond nostalgia, I looked around our private clearing, surveying the trees, the bushes, and the creek bubbling beside us.
   I was so lost to the pleasure that it took me a few seconds to recognize the crunching sound of footsteps coming along the trail. And as the last bushes were pushed aside, I sat up in alarm and turned my head to see Dayna Evans emerge into our little clearing. A second behind her, my sister Brandi followed.
   Dawn popped off my cock and turned around.“Perfect timing.”
   “Wha—?” At the sight of my big sister, I tried to put my hands over my crotch.
   Brandi flicked her gaze to my cock for a brief second before letting out a small sigh.“Okay, I’m here. But I’m NOT even TOUCHING him, okay?”
   “Come on,” Dayna teased. “Not even a little tempted?”
   Brandi’s eyes flared for a second before she pointedly looked away from me. “Dayna…” she growled threateningly.
   “Fine, fine,” Dayna waved off her friend. And then she turned to me. “Hiii, Ben.”
   I gulped.“Dayna?”
   The stacked blonde’s shorts hit the ground just then along with her panties. They were quickly followed by her shirt and bra, leaving the 18-year-old goddess fully naked and standing before me. I’d forgotten how stunning she was naked. “Oh, SHIT,” I whimpered.
   Dawn sat up and wiped the back of her mouth where drool and pre-cum had collected.“So we’re all clear, we’re just friends and siblings here, right? Brandi and Dayna are best friends who like to play together. Me and Ben are best friends who like to play together. And we’re all going to go home tomorrow with no regrets, right?”
   “Right,” Dayna chirped while staring at my hands-covered cock.
   Brandi shrugged and nodded, trying NOT to look at my cock.
   Dawn smiled at Dayna.“Go get him.”
   And with that, the eldest Evans sister slid across the blanket and knelt, firmly moving my hands away and bent her head down to take over sucking me where her little sister had left off.
   I heard a sharp intake of air and I turned my head to see Brandi staring wide-eyed at her best friend fellating me, one hand over her own mouth to suppress her gasp. I watched Brandi’s eyes swivel up towards the horizon and I could actually see her lips forming the phrase, ‘I’m not looking. I’m not looking.’ But of course, her eyes dropped three times to peek while she said this.
   Then Dawn got to her and grinning, pulled my sister down to the blanket beside us. And then while my best friend started working on stripping herself and my older sister of their clothing, Dayna brought her hands into play jacking my shaft while she bent her tits to rub against my thighs, and all my attention was drawn back to her.
   “Oh, shit, Dayna,” I groaned when she swallowed me whole and massaged me with her throat muscles. I whimpered when she pulled back just enough to wrap her tits around my rod and give me a few pumps. And then I held my breath in eager anticipation when Dayna slid herself up my body and then got into position to impale herself on my erection.
   “Yes!” I grunted eagerly at the opportunity to bury my cock into the pussy of the goddess Dayna. The haze of lust was clouding my brain again, and all I could think was FUCK! NOW!
   And I was soon rewarded as Dayna dropped her body down, enveloping me in her personal slice of heaven. And I felt my entire body rejoicing as I found myself balls deep inside this gorgeous older teen’s pussy.
   I watched Dayna ride my boner for a bit, pausing to admire the up and down jiggle of her tits, before glancing over to the couple beside us. Dawn and Brandi were naked and kissing, and my eyes bugged out as I drank in my elder sister’s body once again, only up close and personal this time. Her modest tits looked bigger now that I got a better look at them, her small areolas surrounding erect, dark nipples. Her tummy was flat and without sign of any pooch or flab before getting down to her crotch, which was smooth as a baby’s butt and had just a slight tan line from her bikini bottom surrounding a pretty, shaven pussy.
   Brandi’s dark hair was flung back and her almond-shaped eyes were wide open while Dawn dug her fingers into my sister’s snatch. I felt my heart racing while I watched Brandi’s mouth gape open, and Dawn nuzzled her nose and lips against Brandi’s neck to further the older girl’s pleasure.
   High-pitched squealing regained my attention and I turned to see Dayna’s tits even closer as she hunched forward to really buck her body up and down my cock. “Fuck, fuck, fuck,” she chanted rhythmically, her hair flying into her face while she groaned in satisfaction. “Fuck, Ben! I love your fucking cock!” she growled.
   “And it loves you,” I grinned, tilting my head up to capture a nipple. Dayna helped me out by using one hand to guide her tits to my face, and when I bit down gently on one the way Keira had taught me, the 18-year-old blonde hottie tensed up and came.
   By now, Dawn had reclined herself back and allowed Brandi to slide down to her crotch. And the blonde teen was whimpering while my sister ate her out.“Oh, Brandi! So good!”
   It was incredibly arousing to finally see Dawn and Brandi engaged in a sexual act after having those thoughts enter my fantasies about ten days ago. They’d gotten close before, that time I spied on them making out. But now to actually see my sister eating out another girl was just incredibly erotic.
   Dawn caught my gaze and she grinned at me, licking her own fingers, which were coated with Brandi’s honey. My best friend then got a twinkle in her eyes, and without hesitation she reached her hand to my face and put her fingers to my lips. I was so caught up in the lust that I let my lips open and Dawn pressed the honey-laced digits into my mouth, letting me taste my own sister’s orgasmiccream.
   It was such a turn-on to Dawn that the moment I sucked on her finger, she tensed up and came herself, flooding Brandi’s face with her own nectar. And from a combination of watching my Dawn orgasm as well as feeling the clamping pussy muscles of Dayna’s latest climax, I felt my balls suddenly go taut as my own cum raced up my shaft and erupted into Dayna’s hunching body.
   “Urgh!” I grunted while I felt each volley blast out of me and begin hosing down Dayna’s innards. Dayna herself was screaming her pleasure and I certainly hoped there was no one within a mile of us on the trail, else they would have heard her unrestrained howling.
   After I finished spunking into the eldest Evans daughter, I felt momentarily wiped out and simply went limp on the blanket. But Dayna herself was merely energized by the sex as she rolled off me and then spread her legs to look down at my creamy goo beginning to ooze out of her.
   “Brandi, wanna clean me out?” Dayna giggled.
   “Sure,” Brandi sighed automatically when she rolled her head out of Dawn’s crotch, at least before her brain caught up. “Oh, wait! That’s Ben’s cum! No! I can’t do that!”
   Dayna just shook her head while laughing.“Your loss. Dawn?”
   “Okay!” the young blonde teen agreed and quickly slithered between her sister’s legs.
   “Don’t forget to share!” Dayna reminded.
   “Cumslut,” Dawn rebuked before diving in. And then the sounds of slurping could be heard over the panting breath of all four of us.
   I lay back, gasping for oxygen. When I looked over, I saw that Brandi was staring rather oddly at me, evaluating me a bit while her gaze lingered on my crotch.
   I felt a fresh stirring in my cock while Brandi stared. I knew we weren’t supposed to do anything. She was my sister after all. But she was also a hot, naked female, and I was still horny.
   But before I could do anything about it, Brandi blinked twice and then shook her head to get out of her own reverie. And then her eyes rolled up again as she reminded herself,‘I’m not looking.’
   I had no such problem as I openly ogled her tits and tight body, and my eyes still tracked Brandi when she moved into Dayna’s grasp and the two older teens began to wetly kiss each other. Dayna’s hands also began to rove over Brandi’s body, tweaking nipples and stroking erogenous zones, and soon my sister forgot all about me as she gave into her own pleasure.
   In fact, Brandi got so wrapped up in Dayna’s touch that even after Dawn popped up and snowballed my cum to her older sister, Brandi didn’t even notice when Dayna then turned and stuck her tongue into my sister’s mouth, sharing the taste.
   Brandi just moaned when my cum hit her, lost to the pleasure. At least until both Dawn and then Dayna started giggling, knowing full well what they’d done.
   And when Brandi realized it as well, she abruptly pushed Dayna away.“Hey! That’s not FUNNY! I mean it.” Brandi was seriously bothered, but also still seriously aroused.
   Dayna quickly held her hands up.“Okay, okay. I promise. No more.” And then her face softened and she moved back in to pleasure her friend.
   Meanwhile, Dawn turned her attention to me, bending down to slurp my half-hard cock into her mouth and taste the mingled flavors of both me and her older sister. And thanks to teenage recovery, I was rock hard in no time. So my best friend quickly rolled onto her back and spread her legs to the side while reaching out to me with her hands.“Come on Ben. Fuck me hard. Fuck me deep. This morning has to last me until next year.”
   “Anything for you,” I promised as I moved between her legs and slid myself in to the hilt. She sighed happily and then I bent forward to kiss her, fully joining our bodies together in this act of ultimate intimacy.
   We thrust together. We bucked. We wriggled and humped on the blanket. I still could scarcely believe this was my best friend lying beneath me, and I couldn’t be happier.
   Dayna apparently couldn’t be happier either. She’d finally gotten fucked by a thick, hard dick after her recent drought. And she’d gotten to both feel hot cum spooging inside her pussy as well as taste it. And now, apparently, she was getting eaten out quite nicely.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” Dayna sighed. “Your sister is the BEST.”
   Brandi was too busy to comment, given that she was on the bottom of the older teens’ sixty-nine and Dayna was smothering her face. But I saw the twinkle in Dayna’s eyes before she once again ducked her head into Brandi’s bare-shaven crotch and began licking away while I stared for a minute into my sister’s pink folds, idly wondering what it would be like to be inside there.
   But then Dawn’s cries brought me back to the task at hand (err, at dick). “Oh, Ben! I’m gonna cum! Deeper! Yes! Deeper! Harder! Ungh! I’m cumming! Cum in me, Ben! Cum in me! Cum in me! Fill me!”
   I grunted twice and kissed Dawn just before tearing my head away to yell while my balls evacuated their contents and I was doing as she had asked. I slammed forward twice before holding myself as deeply as possible, and I felt each spurt fly out of me as I filled up my 16-year-old best friend with all my jism.
   As usual, once I finished blowing my load into Dawn, she had me collapse on top of her to hug me tightly. But this morning, Dayna giggled,“Ooh, my turn!”
   And then before I could even catch my breath, Dayna scampered over and bodily extracted me out of her little sister, rolling me over and out of the way. I was so unbalanced that I actually rolled right into Brandi, who for the first time didn’t recoil away from me.
   I looked up at my sister, my gaze taking me up past her naked tits and along her slender neck, until I was seeing nothing but her pretty face as she stared down at me. Her dark eyes were liquid and mysterious, her expression unreadable. Behind me I heard the babbling creek mingling with the slurp of Dayna getting her second taste of my cum. But all my focus was on Brandi.
   I didn’t see the older tyrant who’d bossed me and my siblings around when we were little. I didn’t see the family member who I’d grown up with for my entire life. I just saw her… Brandi… a beautiful 18-year-old girl with a sweet face and a tight body. And I had no idea what she saw when she looked at me.
   But then something changed in her eyes and she bit her lip nervously while she roved her gaze down my body. And then hesitantly, she reached out and put a finger to my lips to keep me still and keep me quiet while glancing over at Dawn and Dayna, who were too wrapped up in their own pleasure to notice us.
   And still with that finger on my lips to silence me, Brandi ducked her head down and gently took my not-yet deflated dick into her mouth, and she slurped just once to savor the mixed taste of me and Dawn. Her eyelids fluttered, and then she quickly picked her head up, obviously working her tongue around the inside of her mouth while cautiously watching Dayna and Dawn to see if they’d noticed.
   They hadn’t, and only then did Brandi remove her finger from my lips. I just blinked in absolute SHOCK. My sister had just put my dick in her mouth!
   But that shock was quickly overcome when Dayna bounded over again, ducking her head to suck my cock much more obviously and much more enthusiastically to bring me back to life. Dawn poked her face over mine.“Having fun, Ben?”
   I just nodded. With three hot babes naked around me, how could I not?
   “Good!” Dawn said firmly. “Dayna and I are going to line up side-by-side so you can switch back and forth fucking us while Brandi switches back and forth sitting on our faces. I get one more cumload and then Dayna wants you to do her ass, okay?”
   I grinned.“Whatever you say.”
   It had been a great summer.SATURDAY, JULY 29, 2000
   “Hurry uuuup!” Eden whined from her spot in the van.
   “Yeah!” Emma chimed in. “We’re ready!”
   “Shut up!” Brooke screeched and then turned to hug DJ. “See you next year.”
   “Safe trip, Beth,” Deanna Evans hugged my mom.
   “Drive safe, Michael,” Jack Evans shook my dad’s hand.
   “We will,” Dad replied, and then went to the driver’s door.
   “Laters, girlfriend. See you at Berkeley in a couple months,” Dayna hugged Brandi and then tapped her on the nose with a smile. I shook my head, wondering how I’d missed so many signs that my oldest sister had gotten rather intimate with her best friend. The girls were right, 16-year-old boysWERE clueless morons.
   I smiled when Dayna also came over and hugged me.“Thanks for keeping me company, Big Ben,” Dayna grinned.
   “Anytime,” I said honestly, letting my eyes drop to her tits one last time.
   “Hey, gimme back my man!” Dawn hip-checked Dayna out of the way and then grabbed my head, planting a juicy kiss on my lips.
   “Ohhhmiiiiigaaawwwwd,” Brooke moaned. “Get a room already!”
   I felt my hand go up, ready to flip her off, but I held myself back. Guess I was starting to mature… alittle bit. I just finished up my kiss with Dawn and then gazed into her baby blue eyes.
   “I love you,” Dawn husked and then whimpered softly, her face pinching in with sorrow.
   I moved my thumb up to brush away the tears dribbling down her cheeks, and then pecked her quickly once more.“I love you, too. You’re my Dawn… forever. Don’t forget that.”
   “I won’t.”
   And with a heavy heart, I hopped into the van, Brandi joining me afterwards and then closing the double-doors shut behind her. Dawn circled around to my window and blew me a kiss. I waved sadly and then my dad started the engine.
   It was time to return to the real world, where friends, school, and many more romantic complications awaited.
   Chapter 6: GirlfriendJuly 2000, Summer Break
   “You should call your girlfriend.”
   “Huh?” With red eyes, I blearily turned my gaze to my big sister Brandi.
   “Call Megan,” she said. “You just got home and she’ll want to hear from you tonight. Girls like that.”
   “Oh… right, right,” I nodded.
   “Just looking out for you little bro,” Brandi smiled and hopped up the stairs to her bedroom. I was simultaneously thankful and annoyed at her. Thankful, because it never would have occurred to me to call my “girlfriend” upon returning from a month away and it WAS a good idea. Annoyed, because SHE had slept for most of the drive home and had the energy to hop while I still couldn’t sleep in a moving vehicle and was feeling bone tired.
   I staggered over and told my mom I wanted to use the phone when she was done. She was letting Beth Evans know our family had arrived safe and sound. I toyed with the idea of asking to speak with Dawn for a little while, but sighed and pushed my best friend from my mind. Dwelling on her wasn’t going to do me any good from five hundred miles away.
   Five minutes later, I was dialing the half-remembered phone number to Megan’s house.
   “Ben!” Megan answered breathlessly as soon as she picked up the line. Ah, the age of caller I.D.
   “Hey…” I said tiredly.
   “You’re back!”
   “Evidently.”
   “You don’t sound excited to hear my voice,” she pouted. Megan had seemingly built this moment into some grand reunion and I was disappointing her.
   “Sorry. I’m just exhausted. I couldn’t sleep for the entire drive down,” I replied wearily.
   “Oh, okay.” She went silent for a second.
   Now what was I supposed to do? Brandi had said to call her but hadn’t told me what to say. What did I want to say? Hey Megan, I still like you and want to fuck your brains out but I didn’t really miss you because I spent my entire time fucking the brains out of my best friend and her sister with big tits! Yeah, that would go over well.
   “I got your letter,” Megan said brightly.
   Letter? Oh, yeah… Sometime in the middle of the month at camp, when Dawn and I were reminding ourselves we were just friends, we’d both sat down and written letters to our actual boyfriend and girlfriend. Dawn wrote some flowery romantic thing that went on for three pages. I wrote a half-page ‘Hey I’m having fun but I miss you’ short note.
   “Yeah, sorry I’m not a better writer. I’m really not a ‘letters’ kind of guy.”
   “That’s okay,” Megan said sweetly. “I’m just happy you remembered to write.” She sighed. “Oh, I wish I could see you right now!”
   “Me, too,” I said automatically. I felt bad. Megan had been such a good friend to me over the past year, but right now I couldn’t muster up the same enthusiasm she had for this relationship.
   “Am…” Megan’s voice cracked nervously as she took a deep breath. “Ben, am I still your girlfriend?”
   Both my eyebrows rose. To tell the truth, if Dawn had come back to Orange County with me, my answer to Megan would be‘no’. I would MUCH rather be with my Dawn than Megan. But then again, if Dawn was living nearby, I doubted I would ever have even started being Megan’s boyfriend in the first place.
   And right now, having a girlfriend sounded better than being single. So with as much conviction in my voice as I could manage, I answered,“Of course. I promised, didn’t I?”
   “Oh, thank god,” Megan sighed with obvious relief. “I wanted to believe you’d still want me, but I was afraid.”
   “Relax, Megan. I still want you,” I forced some cheer into my voice. “It’s only been a month.”
   “I want you.” Megan dropped her voice almost to a whisper as she husked, “I got sooo horny for you this last month, Ben.”
   “Me, too,” I said automatically, and the husk in her voice made me remember what Megan looked like naked.
   “When can we meet again?” she asked anxiously.
   “Uh, Monday, I guess. When our parents go to work.”
   “Not tomorrow?” Megan whined.
   “Well, maybe for a bit. But we won’t have anywhere private to go.”
   “I don’t care. I just want to see you, Ben,” her voice was urgent, and she started panting softly. “I’m touching myself right now thinking of you.”
   My eyes popped open.“Are you in front of your parents?”
   “No, silly,” she giggled. “I brought the phone into my room.”
   “Oh, okay.”
   “So when you masturbate tonight, will you think of me?” she asked hopefully.
   “Uh, honestly, I don’t think I’ve got the energy to masturbate. I’m going to pass out as soon as I hit my bed.” And then I was hit with a big yawn that seemed to last a minute.
   Megan giggled,“You really ARE tired.”
   I sighed.“Long day.”
   “Well, I’ll let you go. You’ll call me tomorrow?”
   “Yes.”
   “Promise?”
   “Yes.”
   “When tomorrow?”
   I rolled my eyes in cranky annoyance. She was getting rather clingy, but I supposed it was understandable since I’d been gone for a month. I was sure she’d calm down after a few days. I sighed, “I’ll call you, okay? We’ll go out tomorrow night.”
   “Okay, good night, Ben. I love you,” she said sweetly.
   “Good night, Megan,” I replied and then hung up the phone.* * *
   “Hey there, Ben. Where’ve you been all summer?”
   I froze in place on the sidewalk, turning to see a cherry red Mustang convertible idling next to the sidewalk. In the driver’s seat was Adrienne Dennis, gorgeous blonde cheerleader and neighbor down the street. It looked like she was just coming back from the beach, a cooler and towels in the backseat along with a wakeboard, and her only covering up top was a skimpy bikini that would have put Dayna’s to shame. At least I was used to seeing Dayna’s big tits, so I was quickly able to get over my shock and bring my eyes up to Adrienne’s gorgeous face.
   “Uh, hey Adrienne,” I turned in surprise. “Well, my family goes up to a camp every July.”
   “Cool.” Her smile flashed big rows of pearly white teeth. “Looks like you did some working out while you were up there. You’re looking good, Ben.”
   “Uh, thanks.”
   She giggled and then shifted her car into gear.“I’ll see you around.” And then she drove up another few houses before opening the garage and turning left into it. I put her out of mind and instead hurried down to Keira McNeil’s door.
   Now perhaps if I hadn’t been so eager to see Keira again, I would have looked around to make sure the coast was clear before ringing the doorbell. But I was eager, and I didn’t check, and I never saw Adrienne come out of the garage to stare at me from across the street.
   I had to ring the bell a second time before the door finally opened, and then there was my favorite adult woman in the world wearing a light summer dress that caused me to pop an instant boner.
   “Ben, hi!” Keira jumped forward and enveloped me in a hug. Good lord she smelled good. Her lush brown hair was pulled back to show off her pretty face and I felt the warmth of her bare shoulders beneath my hands as I returned the hug.
   And then before we got out of the doorway, instinct overtook us and our heads came together for a passionate kiss.
   When we finally broke apart, Keira took my hand and tugged me into her house while closing the door. We moved into the living room and settled onto the couch.“Oh, Ben, I’ve missed you! How was camp?”
   “It was great. Just great,” I said brightly, eager to share my budding relationship with Dawn. Keira McNeil was the only one in the world I trusted enough to tell. Not my parents, not my friends, just her. “So much happened to me up there.”
   “I can’t wait to hear it. And I’ve got a lot to tell you myself,” she smiled wistfully, a hint of wary concern in her eyes.
   “Can it wait?” I asked with my eyes obviously running up and down her body. I hadn’t cum since Friday and my hormones were pumping in overdrive. Her flower-print dress had slender straps and a bustline that drooped low enough to show the beginnings of her cleavage. And the rest of the material was light and thin enough to outline her body’s curves.
   Keira took one look at the hunger in my eyes and she blushed.“Well, I suppose it can.”
   Eagerly, I leaned across the couch and captured her lips with my own again, reveling in her familiar taste and quickly bringing my hands up to her shoulders to grip her tightly.
   The beautiful brunette moaned and put her hands to my head, tilting my face so that she could plunge her tongue deeper into my mouth. And then her hands moved to my back, gripping my shirt and balling it up in her fists while she groaned and pulled me atop her so that I was lying across her body on the couch.
   We frenched for a minute while Keira scrabbled to tug my shirt over my head. And when my bare chest was revealed to her, she paused and squeezed my hard pecs.“You’ve been toning up, Ben. Getting a lot of exercise at camp?”
   “Something like that,” I answered, thinking of my marathon fuck sessions with the Evans girls, pleased that both gorgeous Adrienne and my beautiful Keira thought I was looking better.
   “Mmm… I like…” Keira continued to rub my naked chest. And then she rolled us over so that I was sitting on the couch and she could kneel on the floor to remove my shorts.
   My cock was no sooner revealed than Keira had quickly swallowed it, bobbing her head up and down for a minute before popping off and breathlessly asking,“Did you get bigger?”
   “Uh, I dunno. Haven’t measured it since I left.”
   “Well, it FEELS bigger. Thicker, at least,” she sighed and then stretched her lips around me once again. This time, she also brought up her hand to start jacking me while starting in on the powerful sucking.
   I realized Keira’s goal. We’d done this enough times and she’d taught me enough of her “non-verbal cues” for me to recognize that she just wanted me to cum as quickly as possible so that she could swallow me down. I was surprised that it actually took me a few seconds to figure that out, out of practice as I was with her specific signs and indicators.
   Keira wanted me to pop off in her mouth and she soon got her wish. I bucked my hips off the cushion, shoving my cock against the back of her mouth in reflex before I started painting her tonsils with my cum. She drank down every drop with a happy smile and sighed with satisfaction. Right then, I wasn’t sure who was the bigger cumslut: Keira or Dayna.
   After cumming, I stood my older lover up and began stripping her. Now that I’d gotten my first orgasm out of the way, I was far more patient and took the time to nuzzle and kiss each bit of exposed skin as I divested the beautiful 28-year-old of each piece of clothing. And I loved the way her green eyes sizzled as she watched me.
   I then spun her around to sit on the couch, pulling her hips to the edge and spreading her legs wide. It was my turn to kneel and orally pleasure her. And pleasure her I did. If there was one aspect I had vastly improved upon from repeated practice on the Evans sisters, it was cunnilingus.
   Keira had taught me a lot, but she really only knew what felt good for her. Megan was too inexperienced to really understand what was going on or how to explain what she wanted from me, so I pretty much just did the same things I’d done to Keira with a little improvisation based on me trying to read Megan’s cues. But Dawn and Dayna, those girls KNEW how to eat pussy. They’d taught me VERY well and now I was showing Keira that the student had become the master.
   “Oh MY, Ben!” Keira gasped. “Where did you learn to do THAT?”
   I pulled my head up just long enough to say,“I’ve got a LOT to tell you.”
   “Tell later. Eat more!” she urged and then pressed my head into her crotch. I did as she asked.
   Three orgasms later, Keira couldn’t wait any longer and she turned around, knelt on the seat, and braced herself against the backrest with her ass pointed back at me. I saw the wet lips of her sodden pussy between her legs and while fisting my re-hardened cock, I stepped into position and thrust myself into the pretty brunette from behind.
   “Ohhh, Ben!” Keira crooned.
   “Ohhh, Keira!” I sighed. And then I started pumping. I ran my hands across her naked back, tracing her spine. I gripped her hips to hammer her a little harder for a few strokes. And I bent over to reach around and play with her tits and tweak those sensitive nipples, just the way she liked it.
   “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!” she began chanting. “Harder! Harder!”
   So I fucked her harder.
   “Pinch my nipples. Squeeze them!”
   So I pinched her nipples. It was so easy having sex with Keira. She knew what she wanted and she was very vocal about telling me. And she reaped all the rewards.
   “Oh God! Oh God! I’m cumming! I’m cumming! YES!”
   And she was cumming. Her pussy muscles clamped down onto me and I thrust twice more before driving my cock all the way in and holding myself there while I spunked out a heavy load straight into the depths of her clenching box. And we thrashed against each other for a good minute while she rode the waves of her climax and I kept spitting out wad after wad of creamy jism.
   When we were done, I got the box of tissues and handed it off to Keira to let her dab herself dry so the couch wouldn’t stain. And then still naked, she collapsed into my arms and held herself against my chest. “Ohhh, I needed that, Ben. I thought I’d gotten used to going without sex after three years without Colin. But you spoiled me rotten, big boy. My dildo just isn’t the same.”
   “I’ll be here any time you want me,” I said sincerely, looking into her eyes.
   But that wary concern came back into her green gaze. And taking a deep breath, she said,“We need to talk about that.”
   “What?”
   “I’m dating someone.”* * *
   We got cleaned up and redressed before sitting back down on the couch together. Keira wanted to ask me questions about camp but I was one-track minded about getting her to explain more about her new“date”.
   “He’s a lawyer, he’s 32, and he just got out of a long-term relationship. His girlfriend wanted him to settle down, but he’s a workaholic. We met because he won a real estate case for one of my coworkers and we all went to a bar to celebrate about a week after you guys left for camp. He seems like a good guy, and he’s not going to pressure me for anything serious right away. We’ve only been on three dates.”
   My mind immediately went to Adrienne’s comment about what happens after three dates. And biting my lip with jealousy I asked, “Have you had sex with him?”
   Keira chuckled at the expression on my face and shook her head.“No.”
   I visibly relaxed.
   But then she continued,“Not yet.”
   Looking pained, I asked,“You’re thinking about it?”
   “Are you jealous, Ben?” Keira looked amused.
   “I…” I looked up to collect my thoughts. I took a deep breath before responding, “Well, yeah. But it’s okay. I get it. It’s not like I can marry you. And it’s not like I haven’t been with anyone else. It’s only fair.”
   “You’re young, Ben,” Keira smiled wistfully. “I’m… I’m just using you for sex right now. It wouldn’t be fair for me to keep you from living your life or dating around.”
   I shrugged.“You’re not just using me. And if you were, it’s not like I’m complaining. You’ve taught me so much and the sex is wonderful!”
   She blushed and smiled.“It IS, isn’t it?” Then she shook her head to clear it and frowned at me. “But you have to know Ben: If Stuart and I get serious then we can’t sleep together anymore. It wouldn’t be fair to him.” Her words said “if”, but her tone said “when”.
   I’d known this would happen eventually. I’d felt it in my gut when I left her to go to camp. But expecting it is one thing; not being disappointed is completely different. I sighed and looked at the floor while Keira patiently waited me out. But then I took another deep breath and softly stated,“I understand.”
   “You’re not happy about it.”
   “Of course not! I LOVE what we do together. But I understand.” I gave her a weak smile and Keira pulled me to her to wrap me up in her arms. Damn she smelled good.
   “Oh, Ben. If only you were ten years older,” she sighed.
   I bent my nose down to nuzzle her shoulder and neckline, fighting away the urge to cry. And I reminded myself that it wasn’t over yet. It might be over soon, but it wasn’t over yet. Heck, Keira and this lawyer guy might never get to the serious point, although she seemed pretty sure that they would. I might as well enjoy what time we still had left.
   “Keira?” I said softly while nuzzling her neckline.
   “Yes, Ben?”
   “If you haven’t gotten to the serious point yet, can I make love to you again right now?”
   She turned and her green eyes sparkled at me as she slid her dress straps off her shoulders.“Of course.”* * *
   “Good evening, Mrs. Kwan.”
   Megan’s mom stood in the doorway and smiled down at me. “Good evening, Ben. How was your trip?”
   “It was very nice, ma’am,” I answered politely, keeping my posture erect and my expression earnest.
   “Your parents approved you coming out tonight? You could have seen Megan tomorrow.”
   “I know, ma’am. I…” I shrugged. “It’s been a month. I just miss her.”
   “Couldn’t be as much as Megan missed you. She was moping for DAYS when you left.” She chuckled. “I should have you go away more often. She cleaned the entire house to keep herself busy. And she’s been so excited this past week knowing you were coming back.”
   I blushed and kept my mouth shut.
   The mirthful expression on Mrs. Kwan’s face then vanished as she took a deep breath. “Well, even if your parents have approved for you to go out tonight, I haven’t yet. I need to speak with you first, Ben.”
   My girlfriend’s mother then stepped out onto the porch with me and closed the door behind her. I immediately felt my pulse speed up as she folded her arms over her chest and despite the fact that I was eight inches taller than her, I started to feel rather intimidated. “Ben, what are your intentions towardsmy daughter?”
   “Excuse me?” I squeaked.
   “I like you Ben. I think you’re a good boy and you’ve been a good friend to Megan this past year. But ever since you two started dating, she’s become a completely different girl. Makeup, clothing, her attitude. She’s not rebellious or anything, but all of a sudden, she’s not my little girl anymore. I feel like she’s grown up overnight. And I have to know,” Mrs. Kwan began menacingly. “Have you had sex with my daughter?”
   My eyes flew open and I blurted,“No! Not y—” Too late, I bit down on my lip to stifle the next word.
   “Not yet?” Mrs. Kwan finished for me. “Was that the plan for tonight? Were you planning to drive her somewhere so you could seduce her and take her virginity?”
   “No, no! I swear! I had no such plans or intentions! I’d never push Megan to do anything she didn’t want!” I didn’t bother to explain that I’d already had sex twice that morning with a beautiful brunette adult and so didn’t NEED to get laid tonight.
   “I’m not worried about you pushing Megan. I’m worried about HER urges. Megan is so infatuated with you right now that she’d let you do ANYTHING to her, more so now that you’ve been gone this past month. I was hoping that the time away would let her ardor for you cool a bit. But this past month has only made her more in love with you. And I’m afraid she’s going to do something stupid.”
   “We’re just going for a drive, Mrs. Kwan,” I tried to explain. “I missed my girlfriend and she missed me. We’re not going to do anything stupid.”
   “Can I have your word on that?”
   “What?”
   “Your word, young man. You will not have sex with my daughter. If you can’t give me that, you’re not going out tonight.”
   I blinked rapidly while my brain raced.“Uh, okay. I can promise that we will not have sex. The last time I saw Megan, I knew she wasn’t ready anyways. And I honestly have no intentions of… seducing her… We’re just going for a drive.”
   Then I finally felt some steel return to my spine and I took a deep breath.“But that’s just for tonight. I mean no disrespect, Mrs. Kwan, but whether or not to have sex will ultimately be Megan’s decision, not just mine or yours. She and I may very well come to that point in our relationship. All I can promise you for the future is that I will always treat her the way she deserves.”
   Mrs. Kwan locked her eyes onto mine for a long minute and mustering every ounce of courage I had in me, I simply held her gaze.
   At last, she exhaled and her eyes softened.“You’re a good boy, Ben. You’re a teenager full of hormones, and that frightens me, but you’re a good boy. Megan could do a lot worse. I may not be thrilled that my little girl is growing up, but I’m happy that she’s growing up with you. You can go out tonight.”
   I sighed with relief.
   Mrs. Kwan began to open the front door again but stopped with it just a few inches open.“Remember your promise about tonight, Ben.” She smiled. “I know you can’t promise forever, but I may end up asking you to repeat that promise every single night you come by to pick her up.”
   I smiled and then she went inside.
   Two minutes later, after a couple of yells in Chinese, Megan came racing out and launched herself into my arms, hitting me with enough force to knock me back and make me stagger for balance. A split second later, Megan’s lips were on my own and she was humming happily as she kissed me with long built-up passion.
   When we finally broke for air, the cute brunette panted at me,“Oh, Ben! I missed you so much!”
   “I can tell,” I chuckled and looked her over. For some reason, my memory of Megan had failed to do her justice. In comparison to the more developed figures of Keira, Dawn, and Dayna, I’d remembered Megan as just a little 15-year-old girl. But while she was flatter-chested and thinner-hipped than the others, Megan clearly had the body of a young woman. From her pretty face with angular cheekbones to obvious bosom and flaring hips, she certainly was no little girl anymore. Perhaps my memory was just flawed. Perhaps she’d developed even further while I’d been away. Either way, I was very happy to have her with me now.
   Megan took note of my clearly evaluative self, and put out by my seeming lack of enthusiasm, she whined,“Aren’t you happy to see me?”
   “Yeah, yeah,” I stammered and then shook myself from my reverie. “Sorry, your mom kinda freaked me out,” I said as I took her arm and started leading her down to my car.
   “Oh, what did she say?”
   I grimaced.“Well, she asked if I’d had sex with you.”
   “She did NOT!” Megan glared at me and then turned to fix her glare on the house. “Oh, I’m gonna kill her!”
   “Relax, relax,” I patted her arm and pulled her to my car, opening the door and letting her in. I circled around and the hopped into my side. And once I got myself settled into the driver’s seat, I told her, “And then she made me PROMISE not to have sex with you tonight.”
   Megan’s eyes got even wider. “What?!?”
   “Relax…” I soothed and rubbed her leg. “C’mon, I told you we don’t have anywhere comfortable we can go. And I don’t think you want to lose your virginity in the back of a cramped Corolla anyways.”
   In the dimming light Megan just grinned mischievously.“No. I already have that all planned out.”
   My hands froze on the keys and I turned my head just before starting the car.“What?”
   Megan giggled.“You’ll see.”* * *
   She wouldn’t tell me what the big secret was for most our little date, so I settled for the usual exchange of what we’d each been up to for the past month.
   We picked up some milkshakes and then launched into our narratives. Megan moaned about piano lessons and her parents making her study for SATs and other academics even though it was summer vacation. I sympathized because I knew my parents would be putting me in an SAT prep course soon as well. She talked about how she’d spent the past month reconnecting with her friends after spending every morning of the first two summer weeks with me. Cassidy O’Leary especially had been happy to have her best friend back and the two met up practically every day.
   While walking back to my car, I told Megan about camp. I explained about our unique connection to the Evans family and even admitted that I spent most of my time with Dawn, as I had every year for as long as I could remember. And while I was careful not to reveal just how intimate my relationship was with my long-distance best friend, Megan did figure out that we were more than just platonic friends.
   Once we got back into the privacy of my car, Megan turned and asked,“So… growing up with Dawn, you two would fool around a bit?”
   “Well… yeah,” I shrugged. “We kinda learned a lot together over the past few years.”
   “So that means you two were fooling around a bit this summer, too?” Megan arched an eyebrow. She was starting to pick up the habit from me.
   I winced.“Well, yeah. But Dawn is just a friend,” I quickly added. “She’s got a boyfriend up in the Bay Area and she knows you’re my girlfriend.”
   To my surprise, Megan didn’t seem fazed. Actually, she looked quite relieved. “Oh, no, that’s cool. I’m not jealous. I think that explains a bit of how you’re so much more experienced with sex stuff than me.”
   Still wincing, I relaxed half my face and my right eye opened up. I could scarcely believe Megan wasn’t mad at me.
   Megan asked,“You only see her at this camp, right?”
   I nodded.“Right. I won’t see her again until next summer.”
   “Then she’s no threat to me. I’m here. She’s not.” Megan grinned and patted my shoulder. “It’s okay. As long as I’m your one and only girlfriend.”
   “You are,” I sighed with relief and began to breathe again.
   Megan giggled and then waved for me to start up the car.“Come on. Let’s find someplace quiet to park and then crawl into the backseat.”
   I arched an eyebrow and wondered,“I thought we agreed you didn’t want to lose your virginity in the backseat of a car?”
   “Who said anything about sex? I just haven’t sucked my boyfriend’s cock in a month and I’m kinda antsy to feel you finger to me to an orgasm, okay?”
   I chuckled.“Okay.”AUGUST 2000, SUMMER BREAK
   Megan and I picked up right where we’d left off, as if the month at camp had never happened. Well, I had a darker tan than usual and she looked to have grown into a B-cup, but otherwise there were no signs we’d ever been apart.
   Her annoying clinginess also went away the more we were together. I suppose it’s hard to be clingy when you actually GET the person you want as often as you want them. We met up almost every weekday and a couple of Saturdays as well. Sometimes we met up with friends to hang out around the mall or see a movie, with Megan keeping her hand firmly planted in mine. Sometimes wewent out alone, going for walks and just talking to each other.
   Sometimes we hung out at my house. Megan would sit next to me while I played a video game, watching me or reading a book. She often chatted with my sisters, as she seemed to get along really well with both Brandi and Brooke and doted motheringly on Eden and Emma. With no younger siblings of her own, just an older sister already at college, Megan relished the opportunity to play big sister to the twins.
   Sometimes we even actually studied together. Megan looked adorable in her little black wire-rimmed reading glasses. And she had this habit of biting her lower lip when she was focusing rather intently on her studies.
   But most of our time together was spent at her house, taking advantage of her only-child privacy with two working parents. Those times were often spent naked and fondling each other’s body. We were getting very good at reading each other’s signs to bring maximum pleasure to one another, and Megan had even seemed to loosen up about the whole “intercourse” issue. She seemed to have made some decision not to lose her virginity just yet and I accepted that she wasn’t ready. We both had plenty of other ways of getting each other off.
   Besides, it’s not like I was completely going without. While I certainly no longer visited Keira every weekday, I was still visiting her.
   Keira and her regular date, Stuart, had indeed crossed the physical line and had sex. In fact, they pretty much had sex every time they went out, which was about once a week. But even though they were now sleeping together, they had yet to discuss any sense of commitment or talk of being boyfriend/girlfriend. I supposed adult dating wasn’t so different than High School. They had the same phases that separated “flirting” from “dating”, and also “dating” from “in a relationship”.
   And since she didn’t consider herself to yet be in a committed relationship, Keira saw no moral problems with sating her excess lust with me. And on more than one occasion, I would leave Megan’s with some bottled-up frustration at not being able to fuck her, and immediately go visit Keira who met me with open arms and spread legs. She seemed to really enjoy my energy when I just needed to fuck the shit out of her.
   And I“needed” to do so at least twice a week.* * *
   One day in late August, I hopped on my bike to go visit Megan for a couple of hours. She’d told me she had plans to meet up with Cassidy and some of her other girlfriends for lunch, but that gave us an hour to play. And I’d already told Keira I planned to spend lunch and the afternoon with her since she had the time off. My siblings would never know the difference. My girlfriend had been a very convenient excuse in my continued visits with Keira. If I wasn’t home, my family just assumed I was at Megan’s place.
   Given our relative time crunch, Megan and I quickly moved past the chatting phase and quickly got to the making-out-and-stripping-clothes-off phase. Amidst the breathy moans and sighed ohhhs, we both managed to get naked and I was presently suckling one of Megan’s tits while massaging the other. While I’d my growth spurt had regretfully slowed at 5’10” (and an eighth!), Megan had grown to 5’5” and also increased her cup size to a B, with slightly widened hips to match, even though she still had such a tiny butt as to seem almost flat.
   I had just begun to wet my fingers in her folds when Megan suddenly jerked my head tightly against her boob and then grabbed my ears to get my attention. I paused from my ministrations and rolled my eyes up to her without removing the sensitive nipple from my mouth, and through heavy-lidded eyes Megan panted at me.“Ben, let’s sixty-nine.”
   I nodded my agreement and released her tit, but she held tight her grip on my head. Still breathing heavily, she panted,“If you can make me cum before you, I’ll tell you my big secret.”
   Automatically, I arched an eyebrow in confusion.
   Megan giggled and then smiled at me.“I’ll tell you exactly how and when you’re going to take my virginity.”
   My eyes went wide, but then Megan started turning us both around to get into position.“Come on Ben. I’ll tell you eventually either way, but if you can’t make me cum first, you’re going to have to wait at least another day before you find out. And I wouldlove to tease you for even longer.”
   Well, you can’t expect a 16-year-old boy to have any patience now, can you? So with a surge of new energy, I yanked Megan’s legs around as she moved atop me, and before she could even squeal, I’d grabbed her hips and then yanked her wet pussy down onto my tongue.
   “Oh my! Ben!” she squeaked. But after managing to orient herself, she took my hard cock in hand and quickly stuffed it into her mouth.
   Ordinarily, I would have no problem winning Megan’s little contest. She was happily multi-orgasmic like every girl I’d ever been with, and it was typical for me to get her off once with certainty, if not twice, before I nutted into her mouth.
   But this wasn’t an ordinary situation. There were two things working against me that morning. One, Megan really DID want to keep teasing me, at least for another day, so she was working hard to restrain herself instead of just letting me drive her up the proverbial wall of pleasure like usual. Two, the instant Megan had told me she knew how and when she was finally going to let me fuck her, my imagination went into overdrive picturing the wonderful event itself.
   So with Megan holding her own orgasm at bay and me being simultaneously distracted by my own fantasies and urged closer to ejaculation by them, it turned out to be really, really close.
   Megan had both her tiny hands wrapped around my shaft pumping away at me while her tongue danced on my head. I felt the pressure in my balls and that little tingle that signaled my eruption, and I knew that if I didn’t set my girlfriend off in the next ten seconds, I was going to lose.
   So I tried something that had only ever worked on one woman before: I shoved a finger through Megan’s asshole.
   Dayna had been the one to first request it while I was going down on her, reminding me that a human asshole was just bundled with zillions of nerves. Dawn had emphatically ordered me NOT to do it. And I just hadn’t felt the need to try it on Keira. But in desperation, I tried it on Megan.
   The second my digit penetrated through her anus, Megan’s legs locked up around my ears, her hips jerked against my face, and she let out a screeching howl. Two seconds later, her still pumping hands brought me to a finish, and my cock cannon began blasting gouts of cum all over her screaming face.
   From the sound Megan was making, at first I didn’t know if she was cumming or just shrieking at the violation of her asshole. But the second after I felt my first jet of semen fly out, I also felt the drenching wetness of Megan’s honey hitting my chin, and I relaxed as I realized I had indeed gotten her off first. And with that tension relieved, I simply enjoyed the feeling of my prick firing out jet after jet of spunk into Megan’s face.
   When we were both finished, I let my head lay back and pulled my finger free of Megan’s 15-year-old ass. She lay panting on top of me for a long couple of minutes, but just when I was going to nudge her and relieve the weight off my chest, she got to her knees and then cautiously turned herself around.
   Amusingly, her face and neck were streaked with pearly globs of my jism. She panted for another thirty seconds while I looked over her face and glanced at her heaving breasts, but when she got her breath I returned my focus to her.“What made you do that?”
   I arched an eyebrow.“What?”
   “Put a finger in my ass?”
   I shrugged.“I dunno. Had to try something. I was about to lose.”
   “Well you didn’t lose,” Megan sighed, weariness evident on her face except for the sparkling arousal evident in her glinting eyes. “I don’t have time right now to go again, but the next time we get together, you are DEFINITELY going to try that again, Mister.”
   I chuckled. But then in a more urgent voice, I asked,“Okay. Now what is the big secret?” I wanted to KNOW. Megan said she knew how and when she was going to have me take her virginity, and I HAD to KNOW.
   But she still had some more tease left in her. Megan wiped her face off with some tissues first before moving back to me. And then she paused to bent over and take my half-shrunken dick back into her mouth, suckling me clean before finally returning to my side. By this point I was visibly trembling.“Megannnn…” I whined.
   “It’s easy. My sixteenth birthday is next week. During the party, you’re going to take me upstairs to my bedroom and then we’ll do it.”
   “Your birthday?” I asked. What was this with girls and losing their virginity on their sixteenth birthday?
   Megan nodded.“I’ll always remember my sweet sixteen.”
   I arched my eyebrow as another thought came to mind.“Wait. DURING the party?”
   Megan grinned.“During.”* * *
   I was still in a state of mild shock when I got to Keira’s. I’d always thought Megan and I would eventually get to the point of having sex sometime, but finding out that my girlfriend had both a planned date and occasion kind of freaked me out a bit. It put a lot of performance pressure on me, something I’d have to endure for the next week.
   However, my shock didn’t prevent me from being useful to Keira. After she fed me lunch, with expert skill and grace she got us both naked and aroused, and then we had a very pleasant lovemaking session.
   Plugging Keira’s pipes full of my semen seemed to revive my semi-dormant brain. And afterwards I was able to focus on cuddling with the beautiful 28-year-old and tell her about Megan’s scheduled day.
   That brought up my story about taking Dawn’s virginity on her sixteenth birthday, and with Keira assuring me that I had nothing to be nervous about since I’d already done it before, I started to relax.
   But then Keira dropped her own bombshell on me.“Ben, Stuart asked me to be his girlfriend. I accepted, and we’re going to go steady.”
   I whipped my head around to her and for a second, I felt like crying.“Now? Already? But it’s barely been a month!”
   “It’s time, Ben,” Keira said gently. “I really like Stuart. And I know he likes me. Who knows? We might even be able to fall in love someday.” She sighed and stroked my forehead.
   “Does that mean…?” I started before my voice cracked. My jaw quivered as I stared at Keira’s face, my eyes darting left and right trying to memorize everything about her. “Does that mean we’re already over? I wasn’t ready! I didn’t make love to you the way I really wanted it to be!”
   The beautiful young woman reached forward with a serene expression on her face, her hand stroking my cheek soothingly.“We still have the rest of today.”
   My face was ashen, her words not quite cheering me up.“But… but… does that mean that today is our last day together?”
   Keira’s head came forward and her lips opened as she started to answer, but then she blinked twice and pulled her head back. She winced and looked away. “Ben, I… I’m not sure. ‘Last’ just seems like such a terribly permanent word. I don’t know what the future holds. If Stuart and I don’twork out, then who knows? But for now, yes, we need to stop. It’s only fair to Stuart.”
   I couldn’t help it anymore. I started crying. I wasn’t angry with her, not like I would feel if someone was breaking up with me. I was just sad, sad to be losing such an incredible part of my life. Keira McNeil had taught me everything. She was my first, and nothing could ever change that. And as the tears rolled down my cheeks, she cooed soothingly and held my head to her naked chest, pillowing my face on that wonderful bosom I loved so much.
   “I’ll never forget you, Keira,” I said once I got my tears under control.
   “I know.” She smiled and kissed me. And then taking my cock in hand, she began stroking it as she rolled over onto her back and spread her legs to the sides. “Now make love to me again, Ben. Let’s make it a good one.”* * *
   Even though I’d gotten over my post-Megan daze, walking away from Keira’s that afternoon had me in an even deeper daze. I couldn’t help but mentally review every time I’d been together with my beautiful neighbor, from the first days cleaning up her yard to the infamous towel bar and those first blowjobsto the recent full-blown lovemaking sessions.
   And now I might never make love to her again. It was a depressing thought that had me in a half-conscious fog, and when I got home I listlessly breezed by Brooke watching TV with the twins and headed up the stairs to my room.
   Just as I turned the hallway, the bathroom door opened and Brandi waltzed out drying her hair with her towel. I saw her and then froze in shock, because the towel she was using to pat down her hair was her ONLY towel. She was otherwise buck naked and automatically my eyes went to her firm breasts and bare-shaven pussy.
   “Ben! What are you doing home?” my older sister squealed and then half-backed into the bathroom, her almond eyes wide in surprise as she moved the towel to cover her nakedness.
   “I… uh… I…” I stammered while my motor skills and vocal speech was short circuited through my dick. Even though I’d cum four times that day, I felt a fresh stirring in my cock.
   Then Brandi did something really surprising. She came back into the hallway and quietly listened to see if anyone was around or coming up the stairs. And then as if she didn’t have a care in the world, she wrapped the towel around her head, carefully tucking in her hair with her arms above her head and letting me ogle every square inch of naked older sister I wanted. “Nothing you haven’t already seen before,” she shrugged.
   It wasn’t, but I still enjoyed the view. Her round tits were pulled high up with her posture and I drooled while looking at the dark nipples and small areolas, imagining what her breasts would taste like. And she even parted her legs to the side, opening up her bare-shaven pussy just enough to let me see some pink. The boner in my shorts was very prominent by the time she finished with her hair.
   And then without another word, Brandi strode confidently to her bedroom. Just before she closed the door, she turned to flash me another view of her naked frontside. And then she winked at me.
   It had been a strange day.SEPTEMBER 2000
   “Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday dear Megan. Happy birthday to you!” Everyone cheered and clapped as Mrs. Kwan set down the cake.
   Cassidy called,“Make a wish!”
   Megan grinned while looking right at me,“No need. He’s already here.”
   The Sanders twins giggled. Elaine Fukuhara squeezed Daniel Chen’s hand and grinned. And Kenny Doyle elbowed me in the ribs.
   Meanwhile, I thought Mrs. Kwan was going to faint, but she put her hand over her chest and managed to catch her breath. Megan’s father looked on impassively from a corner. I wasn’t entirely sure he’d even heard Megan’s comment.
   For a sixteenth birthday, it had been a pretty laid-back event. When Eden and Emma had turned ten last December, we’d gone to an ice rink with fifteen kids, a typical children’s birthday party. And I knew about how some rich kids threw massive 300-person sweet sixteen parties, taking over hotel ballrooms or other outside facilities.
   By contrast, Megan’s sixteenth birthday was just an ordinary birthday party, with some decorations in her parents’ house, some music, and ten friends. We’d gotten started at 4pm when her mom came home from work early. Then Megan showed off her new driver’s license and we all just hung out while her mom made herself invisible except to bring us snacks and drinks.
   Megan’s dad arrived just after six and we went into the birthday cake phase. After the candles were blown out, her parents started the presents phase by taking us all outside to show the used Civic her father had brought home, topped with a big red bow. Megan went suitably nuts over her car and then everyone waited while she took me on a quick spin around the block.
   After that, Megan’s parents reminded us not to touch the alcohol and warned Megan that she was responsible. And then they excused themselves to go to dinner while we ordered up some pizzas.
   Just before they left, Mrs. Kwan pulled me out the front door. I felt the momentary panic well up in my throat, but then I took a deep breath and calmed down.
   She collected herself as well and then calmly said,“Ben, I could ask you for that promise again.”
   I knew the promise she meant. There were no“forever” promises, but she had asked me several times that summer to promise “not tonight”. I winced as I realized that such a promise would fly directly against what Megan had wanted for this, her special sixteenth birthday.
   Mrs. Kwan sensed my hesitation and held up her hand.“Relax, Ben. I’m not going to ask it of you tonight or ever again.” She sighed. “I’m proud of you for always being honest and keeping your word. It can’t be easy for a teenaged boy to resist your urges for this long. But now my little girl is quite certain that her time has come, and there’s nothing left I can do about it.”
   She sighed and I fidgeted while trying to maintain my respectful posture and expression. Then she looked at me firmly.“Ben, you be gentle with her.”
   I nodded.“Of course.”
   Mrs. Kwan nodded. And then impulsively, she pulled me close to her and hugged me.“Be gentle with her.”
   “Of course,” I repeated in a reassuring voice.
   She squeezed me one last time and then turned away, striding quickly. She clearly wasn’t entire comfortable with the situation, but she accepted it.
   I then returned inside, to the rest of the presents phase.
   You could feel the buzz pick up as everyone gathered in the living room to open up Megan’s birthday gifts. The other guys: Kenny, Daniel, and Sung, were clueless. But I think the six other girls: Cassidy, Abigail, Allison, Elaine, Su-Lin, and Anh knew exactly what Megan was planning on for later. Girls just always seemed to share that kind of information with each other, and more than once I caught Cassidy and the Sanders twins giving me strange looks.
   One by one, the presents were opened. Megan actually got through the first six before she realized there was a present from me buried in the pile. She flicked her eyes up to me and said,“I thought I told you not to buy me a gift. You KNOW what I want for my birthday.”
   I blushed as everyone turned their focus to me and stammered,“Uh, well, this is inaddition to that… uh, other, thing.” The extra gift had been Keira’s suggestion. I thought it was a great idea at the time, but hadn’t been expecting the extra scrutiny. “You should probably wait to open it,” I said and gave Megan a “look”.
   Now it was her turn to blush and she set the wrapped gift aside. The three guys looked at me strangely and the girls started giggling amongst themselves. Then we made it through the last three gifts.
   At last, there was nothing left but my wrapped present and you could feel the tension in the air. By now, the other guys had figured out that something was up and everyone was looking back and forth between me and Megan.
   Megan herself was staring at me hungrily, and for a second I thought she was going to jump me right then and there. I wondered for the dozenth time what possessed her to want to do this DURING her birthday party. But she’d convinced me it WAS what she wanted.
   “Shall I open it?” Megan asked while holding my present aloft.
   I blushed and felt the press of nine other bodies leaning forward.“Uh, that one is kind of private. Maybe we should go to your room to open it?”
   Megan grinned and quickly got to her feet.“Good idea.” She reached her hand down to me, and I took it while getting myself up.
   Megan turned her head to her friends for a moment,“No alcohol guys. Don’t ruin my party, okay?”
   She got a chorus of agreements and then with Megan smiling sweetly at me, she led me to the stairs and up we went in full view of our closest friends. The guys started to get naughty ideas in their heads as they started hooting, especially Kenny. The girls who probably knew for sure started giggling. And Cassidy even said aloud,“Wear him out, Megan!”
   That got everyone laughing and when Daniel snarked,“Ahh, he’ll be back in three minutes,” everyone started laughing even harder.
   Megan ran us the last few feet down the hall and into her bedroom.* * *
   I still couldn’t believe Megan was doing this so… publicly. Most girls wouldn’t want ten people to know exactly how and when they lost their virginities. Wasn’t it supposed to be a secret, romantic rendezvous that would get whispered to their closest and most trustworthy confidants afterwards? But Megan had her own stubborn sense of the way things worked and once she made a decision, she didn’t do anything half-ass. I’d touched her breast on her timetable. She’d given me a blowjob on her timetable. And now she would be losing her virginity on her timetable.
   The focused attention and embarrassing situation had already gotten my heart racing. The knowledge of what we were about to do and the contents of my present had me aroused. And Megan herself was excited beyond belief. The instant we got through her door she flung herself at me and we wound up falling into a heap on the floor, our tongues just as tangled together as our feet.
   We lay there kissing for a good five minutes before we managed to expel our immediate lust and gain enough control to break away and focus on each other. The last time I’d done this, with Dawn, I’d only had to live with one night of anticipation. But this time, I’d had an entire WEEK to be anxious over finally making love with Megan.
   Would she be ready? Would she back out at the last moment? Would I want to back out for some reason?
   And I wasn’t helped by two significant factors: One, that I hadn’t had full intercourse in a week, since that “last time” with Keira. So my body was craving the satisfyingly intimate sensation of being completely imbedded inside a woman. And two, that I hadn’t even CUM in two days. That one had been the hardest. Megan wanted me rested and loaded with plenty of semen for her. She refused to do anything remotely sexual with me for two days and she forbade me from masturbating either.
   The not-masturbating thing had been made even more difficult last night when Brandi decided to repeat her little post-shower naked-streaking tease, and I’d run into my bedroom to chew on my pillow until the hormone rush went away. For some reason, the idea of jerking off to thoughts of my own sister actually made it evenharder to resist masturbating, the concept so wonderfully naughty.
   So after a week’s worth of anxiety, two days of sexual repression, and with my balls filled to bursting, I felt ready to explode. And THAT would put a severe damper on this night. So after french kissing Megan for five minutes while dry-humping her, I managed to pull myself away and gasp, “Present.”
   Megan giggled when she saw the state I was in, but she did listen as she went over to where she’d dropped my birthday gift. Sitting down, she opened it neatly as if she was going to save the wrapping and in the end, came away with a Victoria’s Secret box. Her jaw dropped and she covered her mouth with one hand before looking at me with mixed arousal and happiness. “You bought me lingerie?”
   “Special occasion for a special girl,” I said warmly.
   And then all neatness was thrown aside as Megan tore at the box to get at what was inside, finding a cute set of white and pink lingerie, running from push-up bra to french-cut panties and complete with stockings and garter belt. Megan held each item aloft for a long few seconds each, admiring each piece with a gaping open mouth and even wider eyes.
   I started smiling when I saw her check the labels and then nod in confirmation. It had been easy enough to find out her size from all the other times I’d gotten her out of her underwear. And then Megan held up the bra over her shirt. “I’m assuming you’d like to see me in this?”
   I gulped and managed to stutter,“P-please…”
   Megan giggled again and scampered over to me first, kissing me sweetly.“Thank you, Ben.”
   Then she stood upright and sauntered back towards her walk-in closet, which had a full-length mirror inside. I noted the extra sway she put into her hips and replied,“Believe me. It’s my pleasure.”
   Once inside the closet, she turned at the last second.“Don’t go anywhere.” And then she closed the door.* * *
   It took a little longer than I expected for Megan to change. Perhaps she was having difficulty putting it on. Or perhaps she was just admiring herself in the mirror. Either way, I had extra time to fidget, simultaneously getting more relaxed as I adjusted to the situation and more aroused the more I thought about it. In the end, I finally settled for getting onto the bed, pulling down the covers and then stripping myself naked to be fully ready.
   I had just rearranged the pillows and gotten myself comfortable when the closet door opened and there she was: my angel in white.
   “Gawddamn you’re gorgeous,” I gasped.
   Megan looked radiant. She looked pure and virginal and yet so sexy in the lingerie, which obscured all of her naughty parts from direct view but clearly defined all the curves of her body. She really was no longer just a girl. She was all young woman. The bra made her tits look like they’d grown another size and the panties drew one’s focus to her flat tummy and narrow waist. The stockings elongated her legs.
   A moment later, the effect was almost ruined as Megan tried to pose sort of awkwardly, her inexperience obvious as she struggled to find a good position. And then she just gave up and hopped over to the bed.
   “I see you’re already ready for me,” she giggled while staring at my throbbing erection.
   “I am,” I said in a heavy voice. I’d been ready for a week. But I still focused in on her face and saw the briefest of hesitations there. “Are you nervous?”
   Megan sighed.“A little.”
   “Are you sure you want to do this? You don’t have to, you know. I won’t care about you any less if you want to wait.”
   Megan’s smile was radiant enough to brighten the room. “I KNOW, Ben. That’s why I want to. I love you.”
   I smiled and automatically replied,“Love you, too.” I still wasn’t sure if I meant it. Since we’d started dating and Megan had been using the dreaded L-word, I’d found myself constantly forced into situations where I had to say it back. It was expected of me, and I repeated ‘Love you, too’ with the same casualness of saying ‘Hello’. When I’d said the phrase to Keira, I hadn’t known what it meant. But when I’d said it to Dawn, I felt deep in my gut that I truly loved her. The passion manifested itself in my tone. But when I said it to Megan, I didn’t feel the same weight of emotion in my voice.
   Still, the phrase definitely fit the moment and Megan didn’t notice anything lacking in my tone, so she smiled even wider and then I beckoned her to me for a kiss. She climbed up onto the bed beside me, perching on all fours for the moment, and then she leaned forward to kiss me.
   It started off tender. But then our mutual lust kicked in and soon Megan and I were frenching with as much passion as we’d had when we first came into the room. Her hands were on my chest and shoulder while mine went up to caress her neck and arms. And when Megan dropped one hand to my crotch and wrapped her cool fingers around my rod, I stiffened up as I felt on the verge of eruption.
   “Oh, Megan!” I groaned, feeling my balls being to boil. A week’s worth of anticipation and two days of overfilling my testicles without release was just too much for a 16-year-old boy in a situation like this. Megan just looked too damn hot in the lingerie and the feeling of her hand reflexively gripping and pumping my cock was more than I could handle. And I grunted a warning again, “Megan!”
   Momentarily confused, she sat back on her heels, her position such that she was effectively straddling my knees with my cock pointing up between her thighs.“What?”
   I didn’t have time to verbally answer. Her hand squeezed one more time around my cock and then I blew, geysering two full days worth of semen straight out so that I splattered all over her chest with the pressure of a fire hose.
   “Aaah!” Megan shrieked in surprise while I just grunted another shot of semen, which also splashed down on her tits and bra. Her hand, however, instinctively kept pumping my shaft.
   The third blast hit just below her bra and against her belly. The fourth a little lower, and the fifth and successive bursts just splattered her garter belt and panties.
   And when it was all over, I sank against the pillows limply and groaned while I threatened to pass out. My eyes rolled up into my head and my tongue wagged out while Megan just started giggling. And when she saw the Jackson Pollack painting I’d made across her entire torso, she started laughing. “Mom’s going to have a fit when she finds this in the laundry.”
   And with that, Megan reached for the front-clasp to the bra and pulled it off, baring her naked tits to my view. And no matter how many times I’d seen them, I never tired of them. And my eyes popped open to enjoy the ogling opportunity.
   Megan smirked.“I’ll have to be more careful how I wield these weapons,” she giggled while waving the bra. She then moved over to towards her closet again, folding the soiled bra neatly before dropping it into her hamper. Megan could be a little OCD that way. She even folded her dirty laundry. But that precision could be very sexy. With no sloppiness and very deliberate in her movements, Megan unsnapped her garters and shimmied out of the stockings with her butt pointed back towards me, being very obvious about where she wanted me to look.
   By the time she got the stockings off, I’d managed to recover somewhat and sat up to watch her undress. With that first orgasm out of the way, I was now feeling much more relaxed. Offhand, I commented, “Uh, the sales lady told me that you should put your panties on OVER the garter straps. That way you can drop your panties to… say… go to the bathroom without removing the garters.”
   “Ahh…” Megan nodded at that little tidbit of information. “Hey, that means I could take my panties off for us to have sex while still wearing the garters and stockings too, right?”
   I blushed and felt a little tingle in my crotch.“Uh, yeah, the thought HAD crossed my mind,” I admitted.
   “Kinky…” she smirked as she finished by folding and then dropping her cum-stained panties into the hamper as well. “Now, feel like taking a shower with me?”
   “Certainly!” I said cheerily. For some reason, despite all our intimate encounters, I’d never taken a shower with Megan. Whether it had made her uncomfortable or she just considered it too intimate, it just never happened. But now Megan was inviting us to break a lot of first-time barriers and she turned to walk naked into the adjacent bathroom, and thankfully we didn’t have to go back into the hallway. With my cock already half-hard again and flopping around, I quickly followed her into the bathroom while she fiddled with the water controls.
   And just before we stepped into the water, Megan turned and cupped my face in her hands while we came together for another kiss.
   “Soon, Ben. Soon you will make me a woman.”* * *
   The shower was NICE. There’s something indescribably sexy about the way a girl’s hair gets swept back and plastered to her scalp when wet. I loved the look by the pool. I loved the look even better under a shower spray. I found myself holding my breath while I just watched Megan soaping up her body, at least until she put the soap into my hands and told me to finish lathering her up.
   And when it was her turn to do me, she nearly got me off stroking my cock with her soapy hands.
   But all that was just an appetizer for the main event. Once we got out of the shower, we couldn’t even wait to completely dry off. Still with slightly damp skin, Megan took my hand and led me to her bed. And once we’d arrived, she turned and scooted across the mattress on her butt before getting herself settled and laying flat on her back with her legs spread wide.
   I moved to kneel between her legs, smoothly running my hands over her thighs. And as I crept onto the bed I felt her body begin to tense up. Her pretty pussy was still pinched tightly closed, and I glanced up to first look into Megan’s eyes.
   “You’re beautiful, Megan,” I said softly.
   She managed a weak smile, nerves clearly on her face.
   “Are you still scared?” I asked even more softly.
   Megan took a few extra seconds to think about that before slowly shaking her head.“Not scared. A little nervous, but not scared.”
   “Relax. I promise I’ll be gentle,” I said reassuringly. And then I bent down to begin parting her folds with my tongue.
   Oral sex Megan was used to. And as the good feelings began to percolate in her brain, I felt the tension in her thighs subsiding and she naturally spread her legs wider to give me access. As her legs spread, so did her pussy lips. And soon I was able to run my tongue up and down her slit and wrap around her prominent pleasure button.
   My girlfriend tasted as sweet as I remembered. And as I tongued and licked at her box, more and more of that rich flavor came down to me as her pussy lubricated in biological anticipation of what was to come. She was wet. Her body was ready.
   And so was Megan.“Do it, Ben. Come inside me now. Make love to me.”
   The last time a virgin girl demanded that I get up there and fuck her, I hadn’t been able to resist. Dawn was wet and ready to go, and I was in too much of a hurry to imbed myself in a willing pussy.
   But I was growing up. I had a little more self-control now; and that first orgasm all over Megan’s chest had taken the edge off. Besides, I had to take responsibility for my actions and I remembered the condom question the last time Megan and I had gotten this close to sex. “I need to get a condom out of my wallet first.”
   “Forget the condom!” Megan whined.
   But I shook my head and mumbled,“We’re not taking chances.”
   “I’m on the pill!” She interrupted.
   That got my attention and I popped my head up.“Huh?” I never would have expected Mrs. Kwan to allow Megan to go on birth control. To do so would be like giving her free reign to have sex whenever she wanted. And from what I knew of Megan’s mother, she’d never want that. The family was just too conservative. But then again, Megan’s mother WAS allowing us to do this with her explicit permission. “How?” I wondered.
   “Same way I got them to let me lose my virginity today and in my bedroom. I told them that whether they put me on the pill or not, I WAS going to have sex. And if THEY wanted to make sure I didn’t shame the family with a teenage pregnancy, then they’d better put me on the pill to be on the safe side. Condoms break. Boys get horny. But they can trust me to take my pill every day.”
   I nodded.“Okay. But I’m not done with you yet.” And then I dove back down to continue my munching.
   Megan just sighed with pleasure and let me build the mood back up. And two minutes later, her hips bucked into my face as she sighed,“Okay, I’m plenty wet, Ben. Come fuck me already.”
   “Nuh-uh,” I mumbled with my lips wrapped around her clit.
   “Ben! Please! Don’t make me wait!” my girlfriend whimpered when it became clear I wasn’t changing positions.
   Keira had once told me I could wait for two or three pleas to fuck a girl before I actually had to get up there. Drawing it out and building up her anticipation would always result in an orgasm that was well worth the delay. This time, I took Keira’s advice and popped my head up, answering, “Patience. It’ll be worth it.” Then I went back to vibrating my head side-to-side with a stiff tongue thrashing her clit.
   Megan just started flopping her head side-to-side in a slow-motion parallel to what I was doing to her pussy, moaning up a storm while I brought her closer and closer to climax. She pleaded one more time.“Now Ben! Now!”
   I was ready. She wasalmost ready. So I waited just a bit and took her entire clit into my mouth, sucking softly.
   That set her off.“Ben! Please! Oh, I’m cumming, Ben! I’m cumming!”
   Megan’s hips jerked just once. But she jerked with such force that she nearly snapped my neck back, and then her whole body was tense as the powerful climax swept through her. NOW it was time.
   So with rough hands and a firm grip, I seized Megan’s hips, pinned her down to the bed, and then pushed my cock into her pussy.
   It turned out, despite all my promises, that it wasn’t very gentle. I’d intended for my girlfriend’s deflowering to be smooth and gentle. Keira had suggested breaking Megan’s hymen while she was in the middle of an orgasm so that the pleasurable feelings would overwhelm the pain. In that, Keira had been right. Megan barely felt me tearing through her maidenhood.
   But she was so damn TIGHT! My intention had been to slip it into her so that she barely noticed. Megan would climax, blink, and then I’d be inside of her. But despite all the foreplay and oral prep work, Megan’s pussy was still extremely narrow and I could only push a couple inches on the first lunge.
   A couple inches were enough to pierce her hymen and burrow through. But it wasn’t enough for me to feel good. I was horny and my adrenaline was pumping. This was it. I had just taken Megan’s virginity. I wanted in! So I gripped her a little harder and rammed my hips forward, forcing my way deeper and deeper without restraint or further concern for Megan’s feelings. The word “gentle” was no longer part of my vocabulary.
   Thankfully, Megan didn’t mind. She was still in the middle of her climax and she was hunching her hips at me while I burrowed down. “Fuck me! Fuck me!” she chanted deliriously.
   So I fucked her. The moment my pelvis hit her crotch, I was pulling out through the tight constriction. Her pussy was like a grasping hand that didn’t want to let me go. And the pressure on my cock was incredible when I reversed course to plunge back in.
   I couldn’t last. She was just too tight. There was just too much emotion. And after three more pumps, I buried myself in to the hilt and let loose a torrent of cum deep into Megan’s vaginal cavity, flooding her with her very first bath of sperm. And as I spunked out my load, my heavy body just collapsed onto her, mashing her beneath me.
   “Ohhh…” Megan wailed as her arms came up and gripped my shoulders, holding me while I spasmed with each spurt out of my cock and into her body.
   And then there was nothing left but the sound of both of us panting.
   “Oh… [gasp]… my…” Megan breathed heavily into my ear.
   It took me a few extra seconds, but I realized I was crushing her and managed to pull myself out and flop onto my back. And then we were both just panting at the ceiling as the inevitable post-coital mental review began. Things had been perfect, except for the end where I just lost control.
   “Sorry,” I wheezed. “I’m usually much better than that. But you were sooo tight!”
   Megan sighed.“Is that a good thing?”
   “Hell, yeah!” I chuckled.
   Megan turned her head to me and beamed.“I’m glad. Was it good for you?”
   I felt the pleasure bubbles firing off in my head. I couldn’t remember cumming that hard or that fast since my first times with Keira. “Hell yeah…”
   Then I smiled at Megan.“You?”
   “It was amazing.” She smiled and idly began to rub her hands over her crotch. She felt the wetness and brought up her fingers which were coated with a creamy whiteness and a pinkish tinge. “Wow… I’m really not a virgin anymore. I’m a woman now.”
   She sighed happily and then reached a hand out to me to squeeze me.“Thank you, Ben. I love you.”
   I knew what she wanted to hear. Especially in a moment like this.“Love you, too.”
   Megan buzzed happily and squealed excitedly.“How soon until you can go again?”
   Chapter 7: Third WheelSEPTEMBER 2000, SUMMER BREAK
   Once again dressed, I gave Megan a last kiss before opening the door. Perhaps I should have remembered what had happened at Elaine’s end-of-school party. Perhaps I should have realized that teenagers have very poor impulse control, and that sheer curiosity would lead our friends to investigate as closely as possible.
   But I didn’t.
   And when I opened the door, it was to see Cassidy, Abigail, Allison, Kenny, and Sung standing in the hallway gawking at us. At least the entire PARTY didn’t have their ears pressed to the door when I opened it.
   “Ha, ha. Real funny guys.” I rolled my eyes and sighed.
   “How was it?” Cassidy asked, her eyes bouncing back and forth between me and Megan.
   “Spectacular!” Megan cheered and turned to hug me.
   I hugged back and swiveled my glance to our friends, finding that Cassidy was looking at me in a clearly evaluative manner. Something in her expression reminded me of the looks Dayna Evans used to give me right before she fucked my brains out.
   Megan pecked my cheek and then set off down the hall with Cassidy, whispering animatedly. I already knew that Megan was giving her best friend a blow-by-blow recap ofexactly what we’d been doing. The Sanders twins followed after.
   I sighed in mild annoyance.“If you’re gonna spill everything, next time just invite her in!” I called after Megan.
   Megan just turned and giggled, which made the other three girls giggle. And off they went.
   “Dude!” “Dude!” Kenny and Sung were quickly in front of me. “How was she?”
   I shrugged and pushed my way past them.“Man, I’m not saying a word.”
   We made it back down to the living room where I looked around and noticed two of our friends were missing.“Where’s Daniel and Elaine?” I wondered aloud.
   Kenny grinned.“They’re in the guest room.” He then proceeded to mime fucking motions with his hands.
   As if on cue, we all heard Elaine’s moan waft down the hallway. I shook my head. “Eh, they’ll be back in three minutes.”SEPTEMBER 2000, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Hey there, boyfriend!” Megan called as she sidled up to me and wrapped her arm around my waist. I grinned as I let my arm slide down her back and I slipped my hand into the back pocket of her jeans, cupping my girlfriend’s tight ass. We walked down the hallway arm in arm.
   Several freshman and sophomore guys standing next to their lockers looked at me with envy. Yeah, I was an upperclassman now. And I had a cute girlfriend. Go on… be jealous…
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came a sultry, sweet voice from my left. Adrienne Dennis was walking the other way, holding her books over her prodigious chest but low enough that they didn’t block one’s view of her cleavage.
   “Hey, Adrienne,” I replied off-hand. Yeah, I had hot chicks saying ‘hello’ to me now. Life was good. I kept walking forward, squeezing Megan’s butt tightly to remind my girlfriend that I KNEW I was still with her.
   “You’re REALLY enjoying this, aren’t you?” Cassidy remarked as she moved alongside us, her ubiquitous headphones wrapped around her neck. I wasn’t sure which one of us she was asking, but both Megan and I nodded.
   For years we’d been just anonymous, underdeveloped kids lost in the sea of bodies on campus. But now I’d gotten my growth spurt, Megan’s boobs had grown in, and we were upperclassmen to be admired. Also, my big sister had graduated and she was off at UC Berkeley with Dayna now, so I no longer had to put up with repeated comments of, ‘Aren’t you Brandi’s little brother?’
   Of course, that’s not to say our first day of school was all roses and happiness. First, there was actual SCHOOL. After three months of goofing off and enjoying ourselves with only minor, no-pressure studying for SATs and some subject material, we actually hadhomework andtests.
   Second, part of Megan’s anal-retentive nature had her straightening my collar and picking lint off my shirt like a mothering hen. Apparently, being my public girlfriend gave her the right to publicly groom me, which caused some minor embarrassment.
   And third, there was Drew Walker.
   One moment between periods, I was standing with Megan by her locker and chatting with Cassidy. The next moment, I’d been hip-checked into the lockers so that I slammed against them with a loud [clang]. And then standing in my place was the Varsity Team’s 6’1” starting point guard. “Hey, Cass… You’re looking hot this year,” Drew drawled with a grin just oozing slimy charm.
   Cassidy quickly tensed up and turned away from him. The pretty redhead was a big music fan, perpetually walking around school with headphones around her neck which ran to a CD player she kept in her backpack. Whenever she wanted to shut out the world… or a rude, annoying jerk… she pulled the headphones up over her ears and thumbed the volume on her CD player in an obvious attempt to just ignore whatever she was avoiding.
   Drew took Cassidy’s cold shoulder in stride. “Hey, Megan!” He turned and slid his arm around my girlfriend’s waist, his hand bending down to cup the same buttcheek I’d been holding earlier. “You’ve grown up!”
   “Get away from me, jerk!” Megan batted at his arm and backed away.
   “Let her go, Drew,” Cassidy growled in an icy voice, but with a scared plea in her tone as well. She’d pulled the cup of one headphone off her ear and glared at the taller boy.
   “What? I didn’t mean nothin’,” Drew held his hands up in self-defense and kept on grinning as if it was only an accident that he’d just copped a feel of my girlfriend’s ass.
   “Motherfucker!” I roared the instant I regained my balance and I pushed out with both arms in a rage of adrenaline, bodily shoving Drew back three feet.
   “Hey, you!” A baritone voice rang out and we all turned to see Mr. Kuznetsov pointing a thick finger at me. “Yes, YOU, young man. We’re going to the Principal’s office!”
   “What?” I burst in outrage. “HE started it!”
   “You shoved him, unprovoked,” came back the firm response. “And you, Drew. Move along.”
   “Yes, Coach K,” Drew grinned at me while the Varsity Basketball Team’s coach glowered at him. And then Drew stalked away. “See ya later, Cassidy. It’ll be just like old times.”
   The slender redhead shivered and hugged herself, biting her lower lip. Megan went to her best friend, and then a meaty paw landed on my shoulder.“Let’s go, kid,” Mr. Kuznetsov ordered and I sighed in defeat, surrendering to adult authority.
   Megan first looked like she was going to say something, but I just looked her off and let Coach K lead me away.
   Fortunately for me, the principal was less of an asshole than Coach K. She listened to the coach’s version of events, which went, “Drew Walker was in the hallway talking to his girlfriend—”
   “EX,” I interrupted. “Ex-girlfriend.”
   Mr. Kuznetsov shrugged as if this was immaterial.“When this young hoodlum, without provocation, pushed him in the chest.”
   “That’s it?” Principal Hsueh replied.
   “I believed this school to have a zero-tolerance policy towards fighting,” Coach K insisted.
   The principal sighed and then glared at me.“Ben, right?”
   “Yes, ma’am.”
   “Did you shove Drew Walker?” She asked simply.
   “Yes, ma’am,” I nodded in shame.
   “Why did you shove Drew Walker?”
   My face nearly went purple as I recalled the incident.“He shoved me into the lockers first! And he grabbed my girlfriend’s a-… uh, her butt, ma’am.”
   She took on a firm expression and said,“While I understand that might be upsetting, there are other ways of dealing with the situation than shoving someone back, Ben.”
   Chagrined, I ground my teeth and closed my eyes, nodding slowly.“Yes, ma’am.”
   She looked to Mr. Kusnetsov.“Was Drew injured?”
   “Uh, no,” the coach replied with confusion.
   “Then there’s no harm. You may both go.”
   Coach K looked like he wanted to say something, but he bit his tongue and just nodded.
   We turned to leave and then Principal Hsueh’s voice stopped me. “Now Ben, remember that there are other ways of dealing with these situations. I don’t want to see you in this office again, understand?”
   “Yes, ma’am.”
   “Okay, Ben. See Bernice for a hall pass.”* * *
   “Did you get in trouble?” Cassidy looked to me once I came up to them at lunch.
   “No, not really,” I replied as Megan quickly enfolded me in a hug.
   Cassidy sighed and shook her head.“And that JERK gets off scot free. He’s such an asshole.”
   Megan’s eyebrows went up. “Hey, YOU dated him.”
   “Don’t remind me,” the redhead moaned and dropped her chin to her palm.
   “What did you ever see in him, anyways?” I wondered aloud with a tinge of anger in my voice.
   “I said, don’tremind me,” Cassidy spat in a voice loud enough that three of our other friends turned to look. And then in her usual way, she pulled her headphones off her neck and up over her ears and thumbed her CD player. I quickly backed away and held up both hands. Megan pinched my leg reproachfully.
   I hadn’t needed to ask that, but I’d done it anyways. Last year, when Cassidy and I had dated for three weeks, she’d broken up with me to pursue Drew Walker, rising basketball star and on the Varsity team despite being only a Sophomore. They’d known each other since Junior High but he’d never paid attention to her until her zits went away and she grew a C-cup. And once he started paying attention to her at the beginning of the school year, she’d promptly dumped me for the taller, more handsome, more popular guy. While I didn’t carry a grudge, I was still irked at Cassidy for that.
   Rumor had it that Drew popped Cassidy’s cherry after only two dates. Then he dumped her just before Christmas to go after a cheerleader. Then the next spring while Cassidy still pined away for him, Drew ended up single and he took her back for about a month before dumping her again, irrevocably breaking her heart.
   It had hurt when Cassidy dumped me to go after Drew. But Drew certainly had hurt Cassidy more; and besides, the situation had led me to Megan, which was turning out rather well for me. So taking a deep breath, I tapped Cassidy’s shoulder until she removed the headphones, and then I apologized. “I’m sorry, Cassidy.”
   She sighed.“It’s okay, Ben.”
   Abruptly, Kenny sat down next to me, his tray hitting the table with a thud.“Hey, heard you and Drew Walker got into this big brawl this morning and trashed half the courtyard! Huh… you don’t look like he gave you a black eye…”* * *
   It was after school and I was walking hand in hand to the parking lot with Megan when I heard a yell behind me.“BENNN!!!”
   I turned around and blanched, smacking my own forehead.“Oh, right.”
   “You FORGOT me!” Brooke screeched as she ran up to us, huffing and holding the straps to her backpack. My 14-year-old sister was a freshman now, and she now rode to and from High School with me.
   I winced.“Sorry. It’s been a weird day.”
   “That’s no excuse for forgetting your little sister!”
   “I’m sorry! What else do you want from me?”
   “Nothing!” Brooke folded her arms over her chest and stomped the last three feet to my car, waiting for me to unlock it. The old Corolla didn’t have a remote or anything.
   I sighed and paused to kiss Megan before we parted.“I’ll see you tomorrow.”
   “Yeah. I HATE going back to school,” my girlfriend said forlornly. This day would be the first day we DIDN’T have sex since she lost her virginity last week. “I’m going to miss you this afternoon.”
   “We’ll figure it out,” I assured her.
   “I’ll be thinking of you tonight,” she hummed. “I love you.”
   I put on my smile.“Love ya, too.”
   Brooke groaned,“Oh, puh-lease…”* * *
   It was Friday evening when I glanced at the clock and realized how late it had gotten.“Oops, sorry guys. I gotta get ready!”
   “What? The game’s not over yet!” Brooke whined.
   “Ben!” Eden protested.
   “You can’t leave in the middle of the game!” Emma finished up.
   But I was already on my feet. I hadn’t had sex in almost a week and there was NO WAY I was going to be late for my date with Megan. “Just divide up my money. Or turn it in to the bank. Whatever. I gotta go!”
   I hustled past the kitchen while hearing my younger sisters bitching behind me. My mom called in passing,“That wasn’t very nice, Benjamin!”
   I didn’t care. I needed to get laid. The summer had spoiled me. From the constant sex with Keira and Megan to start things off to the incredible four weeks with Dawn and Dayna, and back to frequent orgasms with Keira and Megan upon return, I never went more than a couple days without getting off at least once…
   … until this week.
   Keira was focusing on her new boyfriend, Stuart, and other than a passing greeting, I hadn’t seen her in weeks. And with school back in session, Megan’s parents wanted her focusing on her schoolwork in this important Junior Year, which meant no visiting with the boyfriend on school nights. And after seven days I was DYING to get off with something other than my right hand.
   Fortunately, Megan seemed of like mind when I picked her up for our date. We were hungry… just not for burgers or pizza or the like. We took one look at each other and I already knew… we were heading straight for the beach. Fifteen minutes later, I pulled into an open parking spot well away from the few other cars still there after sundown, and then we crawled into the backseat.
   Megan had told me the beach idea back in August. I think she got it from Cassidy, but the point was that unless the beach had fire pits (which this one didn’t), there would be very few people there after dark. The parking lot itself wasn’t lit, and in this section of Orange County crime was a non-issue. It was the perfect place to go “parking”, and as I scanned the lot, I pretty much saw only other high schoolers in the vicinity.
   Now Megan and I had often kissed and groped each other in the backseat of my car. She’d even given me several blowjobs, but neither of us had ever had actual sex in a car before. At first, we could NOT figure out the mechanics. We kept our clothes on just in case someone walked by, Megan just opening my fly and lifting her skirt to try and get herself impaled on my shaft while she straddled me in the back seat. But with the low ceiling, even once I got my dick into her pussy, we found we had a very limited range of motion that wasn’t very satisfying to either of us. Once the good feelings started going, Megan wanted to ride me much harder and wound up banging her head on the roof, which was a bit of a mood-killer.
   We tried having Megan lie across the backseat while I tried to get between her legs. But even with the front passenger seat moved as far forward as it could go, we just didn’t have to the room to get comfortable, and I actually started to go soft in frustration. Why hadn’t my parents gotten me a beater Chevy with a big back seat? And her Civic wouldn’t be any bigger.
   “Dammit, what I wouldn’t give for a bed!” I moaned. Megan’s parents had let her lose her virginity at home, in a safe and comfortable environment. But that didn’t mean they wanted to promote us having sex nor would they grant us convenient opportunities to risk their youngest daughter getting knocked up.
   At that point, Megan just sat me down and bent over to give me a blowjob. I was clearly too horny and frustrated to think straight, and having my cute girlfriend bobbing her head up and down my prick did wonders for drawing all my focus towards a single goal.
   She knelt beside me on the seat while I wriggled my fingers in her panties. And after only a few minutes, Megan brought me to a quick climax that brought more relief than pleasure after my long drought. She swallowed everything down and then continued licking and sucking to rapidly revive me for another go, now that I’d gotten the first cum out of the way.
   That first orgasm also cleared up the cloud in my head. Suddenly, the physics worked themselves out in my head and after giving Megan some directions, I zipped myself up and Megan smoothed down her skirt while we slipped out of the car and into the front passenger seat.
   This time, I settled into the seat and reclined it all the way back so that I was almost in a horizontal position. And when Megan climbed on, she was able to hump herself up and down at an angle so that she didn’t bang her head into anything; and she also could grip the seat back to use as leverage for her impatient thrusting.
   “Oh yeah… oh yeah…” Megan grunted into my ear as she pumped her body up and down my shaft. With the chair locked and the cushioning minimal, I didn’t have much to fuck her back with. Megan ended up doing almost all the work, but she did it enthusiastically. And after a few minutes of rabbit-humping, she was almost there.
   “Oh yeah! I’m cumming, Ben! I’m cumming!” My girlfriend crooned.
   I was almost there myself. But just before I could get my own rocks off, Megan’s body went rigid and she went still on top of me as she groaned out her climax and dumped a load of honey into my lap.
   I couldn’t cum yet. I needed just a bit more. So while my girlfriend shuddered and crushed my legs beneath her, I just gripped her hips and physically yanked her body up and down a couple of times, masturbating myself with Megan’s pussy until I felt that happy tingle and finally let loose with a volleyof cum up and into her vaginal cavity.
   Megan’s bangs were sweat-plastered to her forehead when she finally was able to blink her eyes open again. Still panting for air, she hungrily kissed me and we both moaned, our voices echoing in the small confines of my beater Corolla. And then we broke to gasp for more oxygen. The windows were so fogged up that no one would be able to see in even if they were standing just outside. And I reached over and rolled down the nearest window, taking a deep breath gleefully as the cold blast of fresh air streamed in amongst the stifling heat of the car.
   Megan kissed me again and then glanced into my eyes.“That was interesting, but we HAVE to find a way to do this somewhere more comfortable.”* * *
   “The stoners? Nah, don’t worry about them. They look weird but they’re not territorial, as long as you can stand the smell,” I smirked at Brooke and her two freshman buddies. They were holding their lunches and still trying to figure out the best places to sit around the main quad. Almost all the upperclassman already had their set lunch areas, but the younger kids were still sorting out their cliques and social zones.
   “And stay away from the football team. They’ll happily let you girls sit near them, but you’re going to be getting hit on all day.”
   “And that’s a bad thing?” Erin Roberts, one of Brooke’s little acolytes giggled cutely.
   “It’s no joke,” Elaine shook her head. “Last year, at least five freshman girls got fucked by football jocks and then dumped in the first two weeks. They just want your cherries and then they’ll smear your reputation for the rest of your high school life.”
   All three freshman girls winced at that thought.
   “Can’t we just sit with you?” Brooke asked hopefully.
   “No!” I jerked back. “No, I’m not hanging out with my little sister. I’ll give you all the advice you want… but…” I shook my head. “Ugh, I’m not going to commit social suicide.”
   “FINE,” Brooke pouted. “We’ll sit over there. Rebecca Tyler and her friends are over that way anyways.”
   Kenny piped up.“Hey, have her put in a good word for me with Rachel.”
   Brooke just rolled her eyes and the trio hopped away. Good riddance, I thought. I knew it was my duty to steer my sister clear of trouble, but I didn’t want to associate with her any more than I had to.
   Kenny sighed while staring after the girls.“Man, the freshman girls this year are HOT. I mean seriously, check out those tight asses!”
   “Dude!” I slapped Kenny’s shoulder. “That’s my little sister!”
   Daniel shrugged while staring at his sandwich.“Your sister’s hot, man.”
   Elaine bopped her boyfriend upside the head.
   I just growled and stared after the departing 14-year-olds. They’d all been wearing little bits of makeup, with stylish hair and brand new clothes that certainly weren’t meant for children anymore. My own gaze dropped down to where Brooke’s skintight jeans hugged her lower anatomy. I sighed and turned away before I had to admit: the guys were right.OCTOBER 2000, JUNIOR YEAR
   I hate Mondays.
   Not only is the weekend over and you have to go back to school, but it also meant I was guaranteed to be five days away from doing anything remotely sexual with Megan. At least on the occasional Saturday or Sunday afternoon we could get away for a nice makeout session, some heavy petting, or even a blowjob.
   But Mondays? Not a chance. Mondays just meant I had to wait until Friday to get any action that didn’t involve a magazine or my own rosy palm. And even then, the sex wasn’t that great. In three weeks, we’d gotten no closer to finding a comfortable spot, stuck with the cramped quarters of a tiny Japanese sedan as our only option. We were going to have to get creative.
   Megan’s parents were the type to stay at home and watch TV, so her house was pretty much off-limits, including both Friday night dates and any weekend encounters. My house was always full with siblings and parents as well.
   Even during the weekday afternoons, Megan’s parents had imposed a rule banning us from using their place for sex, even though we probably had at least an hour or two before they came home. Megan’s mom came home early on random days because of her flexible job, often two or three times a week, so Megan and I didn’t want to risk getting caught and thus being forcibly separated.
   So for three weeks, Megan and I had been sexually frustrated. For three weeks, our only sex was uncomfortable sex in the car. One of those weeks we didn’t even do much since Megan was on her period. We were at the point where we were tempted to go to Megan’s house and gamble that her mom didn’t come home or even shell out the money for a motel.
   But all that was about to change.
   “Hey, Ben!”
   “Heyyy, Megan,” I grinned at my girlfriend as she moved into my arms for a sweet kiss. The school day was over and I was waiting for both my girlfriend and my little sister at our usual rendezvous point in front of the student parking lot.
   Two minutes later, Cassidy cleared her throat with an obvious,“Ahem.”
   I pulled away from Megan’s lips and blushed, not realizing how long I’d been making out with my girlfriend in full public. “I know, I know. ‘Get a room’, right?”
   “Actually,” Megan beamed at me with her arms still around my neck. “That’s what I wanted to talk to you about.”
   I arched an eyebrow and she turned to look at Cassidy, who just shrugged and hoisted her own backpack on her shoulder. Then Megan returned her gaze to me with a predatory smile.“We are joining a study group.”
   Megan grinned with her eyes glittering as if she’d just won the lottery.
   Me? I didn’t understand. So I grunted, “Huh?”
   Megan chuckled,“After you drop off your sister at home, tell your parents you’re joining a study group that meets every Monday. Then drive over to Cassidy’s house.”
   I glanced over at the quiet redhead. Cassidy shrugged and said,“My parents never come home before six.”
   My eyes darted back and forth between my girlfriend and her best friend, the picture slowly coming into focus for me.“You mean?”
   Cassidy nodded.“You guys can use the guest room, as long as youpromise to tidy up after yourselves. I don’t want any trashed furniture or stained sheets or anything.”
   I shook my head in the negative and Megan answered excitedly.“We’ll do the laundry if we need to.”
   And then it hit me: I was going to get laid! In a bed! I was going to get laid! Now my face lit up like I’d just won the lottery. Excitedly, I asked, “Every Monday?”
   “Yeah. But just Mondays,” Megan cautioned. “I really DO need to keep my grades up.”
   I nodded, willing to agree to anything.“When do we start?”
   Megan beamed.“Today!”* * *
   I love Mondays.
   “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!”
   I love the sight of the school buildings as I turn into the parking lot. I love the drab complaints of my little sister as she whines about having to go back to school. Too bad she doesn’t know how wonderful Mondays can be.
   “Oh yeah… oh yeah…”
   See, on a typical Monday, all my sister has to look forward to is more homework and less playtime. But me? I look forward to seeing Megan again… knowing exactly what we’ll be doing once classes are over. Seeing the school after a weekend reminds me that the day is Monday, a happy day.
   “So good! I’m cumming, Ben! I’m cumming!” Megan wrapped her legs more tightly around my waist, thrusting her crotch up at me and trying to sink my dick even deeper into her tight snatch.
   A second later, I slammed Megan’s hips back down onto the mattress in Cassidy O’Leary’s guest bedroom, my own pelvis driving her body to create an indentation in the surface while I ejected wave after wave of spunk into my girlfriend’s body. She clutched at my shoulders and moaned happily as she felt me filling her up with creamy jism. And then as her orgasm passed, she grabbed my head and pulled me to her in a passionate kiss.
   When I pulled out, Megan rolled her hips back to trap the small lake of mingled cum bubbling out of her lewdly stretched pussy. What did dribble down was caught by the towel we’d carefully placed there. Cassidy would throw it into her hamper since she did her own laundry.
   I also handed Megan a few tissues so she could blot herself up and we’d throw the tissues directly into the big trash can out in the garage. Then we dressed and made sure we got the freshly-fucked expressions off our faces.
   Cassidy sighed as she saw us emerge from the guest room, pulling her headphones down to her neck.“Do you guys have to be soloud? I can hear you even over the music. Someone out here IS trying to study, you know?”
   I was feeling giddy after such a wonderful sex session, and it was all because of Cassidy’s generosity. Without thinking, I went straight over to her and gave her a big hug. “Thanks, Cassidy. You’re the best.”
   “Yeah, yeah, get off me Ben,” she patted my back twice and then pushed me off, turning her gaze away from me. “You reek of sex.”
   “Jealous?” Megan asked sweetly.
   “Yes, and you know I am,” Cassidy growled at her best friend. “Drew was an asshole but at least it was nice to feel wanted for a while.”
   “Hey, there are guys that want you,” I argued.
   “Want what? I’m just a plain Jane,” Cassidy moaned. “Pale skin and freckles and I burn like a tomato after ten minutes in the sun.”
   “With gorgeous red hair,” Megan interjected. “And a tall, slender figure I would KILL for, with perky tits much bigger than mine.”
   “Doesn’t matter. I’m stuck with this face and I don’t like my nose.”
   “Don’t say that,” I sighed. “I like your freckles. Your nose is fine and you’re very pretty, Cassidy. Why do you think I wanted to out with you so badly last year? And Tommy Jenkins has been following you all over school for two weeks straight.”
   “Tommy Jenkins is a dweeb,” Cassidy rolled her eyes.
   Megan wrapped up her friend in a hug.“We’ll find you a guy, Cassidy. Someone who’s not a dweeb, and definitely not an asshole like Drew Walker. You’ll see, by the time the semester is over, you’ll have a handsome boyfriend who will sweep you away on a cloud of romance.”
   Cassidy shook her head.“I don’t care about romance. Boyfriends take up all your free time and they’re too dumb to think about anyone but themselves. Boyfriends are jerks… uh, present company excluded.” She rolled her eyes at her best friend and then flicked her gaze over to me, the green irises flaring for justa moment as a flush of pink came over her pale skin. “I just want—”
   She cut herself off and Megan leaned in, asking,“Want what?”
   Cassidy schooled her face back to her books in front of her.“Nothing. C’mon, let’s actually study for a bit. I need your help with this Pre-Calc homework.”
   Megan saw something in her friend’s eyes. “Cass… want what?”
   Cassidy’s eyes flickered to me for a second. “Nothing. Drop it, Megan. I’ll tell you later.”
   Megan giggled and I just shrugged. It was no big deal. Girl talk.* * *
   The following Monday, I ran into both Megan and Cassidy after the last bell rang. I had sex on my mind and put a little extra passion into my kiss with my girlfriend while Cassidy blushed and tried to look away.
   When I pulled away from Megan, her chest was flushed above her halter-top and her breathing was a little shallow and rapid. But then I noticed that Cassidy was similarly flushed and breathing hard. I controlled my little smile. Last week, Megan had quietly informed me that Cassidy would often masturbate while listening to us having sex, and I knew that right now, all three of us had sex on our minds.
   Unfortunately, that happy little mood was soon dashed as we headed out the doors. Through sheer bad luck, Drew Walker and some of his basketball buddies were hanging out at the end of this particular hallway.
   He saw Cassidy and immediately a predatory grin spread across his face. His eyes obviously roved up and down her body, no doubt recalling what she looked like naked.
   Cassidy trembled in that little way she did whenever Drew was around, hugging her books a little tighter over her chest and looking down. Nervously, she made to lift her headphones and shut him away, but instead she just hurried along even faster. Without a word, Megan and I picked up our pace a little to speed past them.
   “Now THERE’S a tight pussy,” Drew chuckled as we approached, continuing whatever conversation he was having with his friends. He shook his head with a small frown, “She couldn’t suck dick to save her life. But MAN was that a tight pussy.”
   I felt the hair on the back of my neck stand up as I heard what Drew was saying. Years of being the“nice guy” with the girls had drilled one thing into my head, that girls HATED guys blabbing about the sexual things they’d done. And given that Drew was talking about a good friend of mine, and had likely told his friends EVERYTHING he’d done with Cassidy along with a few embellishments, Ifelt a red anger descend over my eyes.
   Abruptly I stopped walking, letting the girls get ahead of me, and I turned to glare at Drew from two feet away.“You take that back,” I growled.
   “Take what back?” Drew looked at me as if I’d grown a third head. “She DOES have a tight pussy. It felt soooo nice wrapped around my dick.”
   My chin came up as my eyes narrowed.“You don’t talk about my friends that way.”
   “Or what?” Drew stood up straight and was soon backed up by his three basketball buddies. Reinforced by four-to-one odds, Drew leaned in towards me and set his jaw, ready to rumble.
   I stood my ground, the first hint of fear cracking my show of bravery as I took in the situation. Actually, it was the girls who saved me. Cassidy quickly grabbed my elbow and pulled me back.“He’s not worth it,” she said quietly and then nodded down the hall. Of all the teachers observing us, it just HAD to be Coach K. Drew and the boys could probably beat me to a pulp and get away with it.
   I gritted my teeth and then backed up, letting Megan take my other arm and lead me away.
   Cassidy sighed.“It’s no use, Ben. But thanks for trying.”* * *
   That afternoon, Megan decided to reward her boyfriend for trying to stick up for her best friend. I decided that as well as Megan fucked me that day, it would have still been worth it even if Drew and the boys had beaten me to a pulp.
   Megan then informed me that we really needed to find Cassidy a good boyfriend.* * *
   That night, Brooke decided to volunteer the day’s events at the dinner table, right in front of our parents. “So Ben? I heard you got into another fight with Drew Walker after school today?”
   “What? Benjamin?” My mom was quick to pounce.
   “Another?” My dad picked up on the operative word.
   “No, no! There was no fight!” I protested, glaring at my little sister.
   “S’not what I heard,” Brooke shrugged and looked at her plate.
   “Benjamin? What’s going on? Do we need to keep tabs on you after school now?”
   “What? No!” I looked at my parents with absolute shock. I was sixteen. My parents didn’t give a rat’s ass what I did as long as I was home by dinner time. I NEEDED that freedom. “No fight. There never was a fight.”
   Brooke raised her eyebrows.“Heard you had to go to the principal’s office the first day of school.”
   “Benjamin?”
   “Mom! Relax. Don’t you think if I’d been fighting that the school would have contacted you? Brooke’s blowing this WAY out of proportion.” I glared heatedly at my little sister, promising a lifetime of hell and damnation in my eyes if she continued.
   The twins just stared at the rest of us, their eyes ping-ponging back and forth.
   Brooke sighed and looked innocent.“Whatever. I just hear stuff, that’s all.”
   Then when my parents finally calmed down and weren’t looking, I SWEAR I saw a smugly satisfied smile cross my little sister’s evil face.* * *
   Later that night, I went to Brooke’s room and closed the door most of the way, so no one could casually look in but it wouldn’t seem like we were hiding anything, either. My little sister glanced up from her book and arched her eyebrow at the murderous look on my face.
   “What the HELL are you doing? Are you TRYING to make my life miserable?”
   “Just needed you to know that I could.” She folded her arms over her chest and looked at me smugly.
   “What?”
   “I need a favor, Ben.”
   “You could’ve just ASKED me!” My face screwed up in confusion. I’d always been a good big brother to her. “When did you turn all manipulative?”
   She shrugged.“I dunno. Seemed effective.”
   I rolled my eyes. Teenaged girls… “What do you want?”
   Brooke sat up straight and looked at me seriously.“I want you to set me up with Kenny Doyle.”
   “WHAT?” I shouted in shock, forgetting where I was. I quickly hushed myself and exclaimed again, “What? No way!”
   Her eyebrows went up as if to say‘I told you so.’ She smirked and said, “Figured you wouldn’t go for it. Hence the manipulation.”
   “Kenny? He’s my best friend! Why?”
   She shrugged.“He’s cute. He’s a Junior. And Erin kinda likes him too so I need an advantage to get to him first.”
   “No. Absolutely not.” I shook my head vigorously. “Kenny’s my friend and he’s a horn dog! He’s just gonna try and get into your panties!”
   “So?”
   “SO? You’re only fourteen, Brooke. You’re WAY too young for that kind of stuff.”
   “I’m not going to DO anything. I’m a big girl, Ben. I can take care of myself. It’s not like I want to have SEX with him or anything. I just want to have a cute, older boyfriend. And he’s YOUR friend. He should be pretty trustworthy.”
   “No. Not Kenny. Out of the question. Erin can have him.”
   Brooke narrowed her eyes at me.“I’ll tell mom and dad that you go over to Cassidy O’Leary’s house every Monday to have sex.”
   My eyes went wide. When did the devil take away my sweet little sister and replace her with this conniving bitch?“How did you…? You wouldn’t…”
   “Try me.”
   I winced but set my jaw and then sat beside Brooke on her bed. I took a deep breath and then put my hand on my sister’s knee, looking down to collect myself. Then after another deep breath, I looked Brooke in the eye and said, “No. Brooke, you’re my little sister and I love you. You can tell mom and dad whatever you want. I hope you won’t, but you’re too important to me. I KNOW Kenny. He’s a good friend, my best friend. But he’s got fifty times as many hormones as he needs right now and if you give him an inch, he’ll push you too far. I can’t let that happen to you.”
   Brooke threatened,“I will tell on you.”
   I sighed and stood up.“I really hope you won’t. Look Brooke, I’m your brother. You can ask me any favor you want at any time, without all this… whatever. You don’t have to be a bitch about it. I honestly want to help you. But not this. I’m really just trying to look out for you. Date a guy your own age. Or maybe Sung Joon or James Kaito. They’re good guys. But not Kenny. I don’t trust him with you and I’ll do everything I can to make sure he won’t go out with you.”
   Brooke glared and pouted… but in the end, she didn’t tell on me.
   A week later, on their first date, Kenny stuck his fingers into Erin Roberts’ pussy without her permission. She slapped him silly and then bitched to her friends about it, including Brooke.
   Daniel Chen and I ganged up on Kenny and scolded him to keep his hands in his pockets.NOVEMBER 2000, JUNIOR YEAR
   One side effect of the weekly Monday study group was that Megan, Cassidy, and I became tighter friends than ever. It wasn’t that our trio separated ourselves from our friends or anything. We simply got closer and closer the way any boyfriend gets more comfortable around his girlfriend’s best friend. But even beyond that, the intimate knowledge Cassidy had of mine and Megan’s sex life forced us to trust her thatmuch more, which bonded the three of us together in a way I’d never have expected.
   The newer, closer relationships were noted by our friends. Elaine Fukuhara was the first to comment about how the three of us were“thick as thieves” and seemingly went everywhere together. The rumor mill also tried to get going, but the concept of a threesome centered around ME was just too far-fetched to gain any traction, especially since there wasn’t any truth to it.
   But while there were no actual threesomes, we all WERE quite candid and honest with each other. I mean, the girls had always shared intimate details with each other. But they’d never included me in such conversation before.
   The breaking of taboo subjects first started one Monday when a post-coital discussion with Megan carried over into a three-way discussion with Cassidy once we emerged from the bedroom. Megan had been riding me while I sat up and nibbled on her nipples. And at her moment of climax, I’d popped a finger into her ass, which caused her to go into wild gyrations and gave her a particularly good orgasm.
   That led into a discussion about doing kinky things and Megan wondering if I’d ever had anal sex, to which I admitted that I had. And then Megan wouldn’t stop badgering me as she tried to figure out who it was. Not willing to give anything away, I didn’t even answer “no” to any of the girls she brought up, fending her off by repeating “no comment” ad nauseum,to my girlfriend’s utter frustration.
   Megan was still complaining when we walked into the dining room where Cassidy was trying to do her homework.
   “What’s going on?”
   Megan rolled her eyes.“Ben won’t tell me who he’s had anal sex with.”
   “What? Anal? Eww,” Cassidy screwed up her face, her homework immediately forgotten. “That’s disgusting.”
   “Don’t knock it unless you’ve tried it,” Megan drawled.
   “What? You tried it?” Cassidy went even paler than usual.
   “Well… no… not yet…” Megan shrugged. That got my attention as I hadn’t been sure whether or not my girlfriend was seriously considering it. “I mean, it feels really good when Ben sticks his finger up my ass, but I’m not sure about having sex there. His dick is REALLY big!”
   I blushed furiously out of reflex as Megan spilled our sexual details. Intellectually, I KNEW Megan shared all these details with Cassidy, but it still took some getting used to.
   “In your ass? Just… eww…” Cassidy winced.
   “What? Drew never did anything like that to you?” Megan asked.
   “No!” Cassidy protested. We didn’t have to bother asking about anyone else. We knew Drew had been the only boy she’d ever had sex with. She’d gone on a few other dates, but Drew had been the only boy to get past second base. “I didn’t even like it when he stuck his fingers in my pussy!”
   “What? You’re missing out girl. When Ben’s going down on me, and he puts two fingers inside me and then curls them up and starts rubbing the roof of my pussy… oh, good lord… I go straight into orbit!” Megan sighed happily.
   “Megan…” Cassidy said with a warning tone.
   “Oh, there’s nothing like being eaten out, Cass. It’s so overwhelming that your brain just stops working and you’ll promise absolutely ANYTHING to keep those feelings going.”
   Cassidy squirmed.“Stop that, Megan. You KNOW I’ve never been eaten out.”
   “That’s just because Drew is a selfish bastard and you haven’t let us set you up with anyone else,” Megan pointed out. “Ben says Derek Rigby has been asking him a lot of questions about you. I’ll bet he’d be happy to eat you out.”
   “Derekhas been asking about you,” I confirmed.
   Cassidy sighed.“He’s cute and all. But I’m just way too busy for a boyfriend. I’m serious.” She crossed her right arm over her chest and started rubbing her own left shoulder.
   Megan and I looked at each other. Cassidy constantly used the“too busy” excuse, even though we both knew that wasn’t the issue. Megan decided that it was time for her to really push her best friend. “Come on, Cass. You could make the time if you really wanted.”
   “But I don’t WANT to. What’s the big deal, anyways? I HAD a boyfriend and it wasn’t exactly the greatest experience. He took up ALL my free time, he demanded I follow him everywhere. And he got jealous of me talking to my guy friends. Even guys like you, Ben, or Kenny or Sung or whoever.”
   “Not all guys are like Drew,” Megan reasoned. “Look at Ben.”
   “Doesn’t matter. All guys want sex, including Ben.” Cassidy shook her head bitterly. “That’s all they ever think about and all they ever want to talk about. Sex, sex, sex. ‘Please, Cassidy? Don’t you love me, Cassidy? Don’t you want to make me happy, Cassidy?’ And it wasn’t evenall that pleasant. Drew just stuck it in and heaved back and forth a bit until he filled the condom. I spent all that time worrying about getting pregnant and I only came like twice, ever. The GUY has all the fun. I have better orgasms masturbating than I ever did from sex.”
   Cassidy panted for breath after her mini-tirade, her skin flushed and her eyes hard.
   Megan covered her friend’s hand. “Not all guys are like Drew,” she repeated. “Look at Ben.”
   Cassidy pinched her eyes shut.“I can’t look at him. He’s YOUR boyfriend.”
   “There are other guys out there,” Megan encouraged. “We’ve already established that Drew is an asshole; and a selfish lover. We’ll find you a guy who knows what he’s doing. A guy who’ll pleasure you and make sure you cum before he gets off.”
   “And what? You can tell just by looking at them if they’re a good lover?”
   “Well… no…,” Megan admitted. “But you can tell if they’re a considerate person. Drew’s an asshole and he fucks like an asshole. Daniel Chen is loyal and attentive and he’s got Elaine raving about him. There are nice guys out there, Cassidy.”
   Our redhead friend cringed and squeezed Megan’s hand. She took a deep breath and sighed while hanging her head down. “I’m scared, Megan. I’m afraid of getting hurt again. I thought I was in love and I thoughtDrew was a good guy. I let him do whatever he wanted with me and look where it got me. I’m just too scared, Megan.”* * *
   On Friday, Megan and I went out on our weekly date. We actually spent the first half of our conversation talking about Cassidy. Megan was worried about her best friend who hadn’t been on a date all year, and I told her I wished there was something we could do for her.
   Eventually, the conversation moved on and per usual, we eventually wound up at the beach parking lot. But on this evening, Megan really wanted me to work on eating her out. She sat in the passenger seat and slid it all the way back while I knelt before her. It was a bit of a contortion, but her legs ended up on the dashboard while I worked her over and brought her to three screaming orgasms.
   Afterwards, she patted me on the head and told me I’d be wonderful.
   Since Megan then immediately swapped places with me to impale herself on my dick, I didn’t pay any further attention to her comment.* * *
   The following Monday, I ran into both Megan and Cassidy after the last bell rang. I went to greet my girlfriend but she just nodded to me as she huddled closely with her best friend. They whispered with their heads together while I followed with a puzzled expression on my face.
   Coincidentally or not, Drew Walker and his basketball buddies were hanging out at the end of the hallway. I resolved to find a different route out of the school by tomorrow.
   Drew saw Cassidy and immediately a predatory grin spread across his face. His eyes obviously roved up and down her body, no doubt recalling what she looked like naked.“So, how’s my favorite little ex-virgin?” Drew sneered as we passed.
   I felt adrenaline pumping through me again, but Cassidy didn’t even blink. Still looking at Megan, she simply flipped Drew the bird and shook her head. “Whatever, pencil-dick.”
   Drew stuttered and his boys started howling,“Ohhh!!!” The guys were then busy amusing themselves and slapping Drew on the back, and the three of us passed on unmolested.
   Megan and Cassidy had the good sense to keep from giggling until we’d gotten a good distance away, and then nothing would stop them from celebrating their little moral victory.
   Adding to my surprise was Brooke at our rendezvous point in front of the parking lot, holding hands with a skinny freshman with glasses who looked simply thrilled to be touching the bare skin of her fingers.
   Megan and Cassidy gawked before stepping aside and then Brooke smiled at me.“Hi, Ben. I want you to meet Perry Anderson. Perry, this is my big brother, Ben.”
   Tentatively, the kid reached a hand out, which I shook and squeezed down on a little harder than necessary, but not menacingly.“Ah, yes. You’re Emily’s little brother, aren’t you?”
   He nodded. Emily was a nice girl and friends with Stephanie Vo, one of the girls I briefly dated Sophomore Year.“Pleased to meet you, Perry,” I said in a completely casual tone. “You should know that if you hurt my little sister, I WILL kill you.”
   The poor kid gulped and looked ready to shit his pants. Brooke whined,“Ben!” But the grin on her face told me she wasn’t really that upset.
   It had been an interesting Monday. If only I knew it was about to get even weirder.* * *
   I dropped Brooke off at home, warned her to keep out of trouble, and then drove away to Cassidy’s house. The front door was already unlocked and when I walked into the dining room, I found the girls’ backpacks, but not the girls themselves. Curious, I headed for the guest bedroom and got the shock of my life.
   Megan had stripped her jeans and panties and was lying flat on her back across the bed, her fingers rubbing away at her naked pussy. This in and of itself wasn’t so strange. I’d found Megan this way once before and it led to a very enthusiastic sex session.
   But that time, Cassidy had been in the dining room doing her homework. This time, Cassidy was right next to Megan, similarly naked below the waist and running her fingers over her pink pussy and trimmed patch that proved the carpet matched the drapes. My eyes went wide and my jaw dropped.
   Flat on their backs, the girls didn’t see me right away and Megan was telling Cassidy, “And then he does this head-vibrating thing like he’s one of those paint shakers at the Home Depot. Ohh, it drives me NUTS.”
   Cassidy was grinning and nodding when she saw me and then let out a surprised gasp.
   Megan turned her head.“There you are! Get over here, boyfriend!”
   “What’s going on?” I croaked, my eyes locked in on Cassidy’s red-haired snatch.
   Megan chuckled.“You know how Cassidy was complaining that she’d never been eaten out before? Well, you’re going to change that today.”
   Still shocked, I stammered,“W— wha—?”
   “She’s scared, Ben. So I volunteered your services. You’re her friend. She trusts you not to hurt her. She trusts you not to push her too far. And you’ll be very good to her, won’t you Ben? Now come here. Gimme an orgasm and let’s show her how it’s done.”
   My eyes were wide open and my mouth even wider.“Are you serious?”
   Megan just spread her legs wider so that her left leg draped over Cassidy’s right. She reached down with her fingers and spread her labia to the sides. “Doesn’t it look like I’m serious?”
   This time last year, Megan was a nervous, scared little girl afraid to let me touch her boobs from outside her shirt. Now, she was asking me to eat her out in front of her best friend. And from what I gathered, then eat out her best friend as well.
   I wanted to stop and talk about this. I didn’t have all the facts and I certainly hadn’t been part of the decision-making process. But I was a horny 16-year-old. Briefly, an image of Dawn and Dayna lying side-by-side waiting for me to fuck them popped into my head. Well, it wasn’t like I hadn’t been in a situation like this before. So with my dick leading the way and controlling my brain, I decided to just go with the flow. “Okay…” I grinned and stepped forward, already removing my shirt.
   Megan giggled and tossed me a pillow, which I frequently used as a kneeling pad. She hunched her body down to the edge the bed as I got into position. And then I pulled her legs over my shoulders while bending down and took my first lick at my girlfriend’s pretty pussy.* * *
   “Again!” Megan ordered and grabbed my head between her thighs while I grinned at her with my entire chin coated with feminine nectar.
   “That’s already twice, Megan! Don’t wear him out!” Cassidy whined beside us, panting heavily while her fingers kept rubbing her own pussy.
   Megan just whimpered for a few seconds and then finally released my head, rolling over and onto her side, curling into a fetal position as she recovered from her body-wracking orgasms.
   Now freed, I took a deep breath and contemplated what I should tell Cassidy. We were about to engage in a very intimate act, literally going from brief kisses and outside-the-clothes pawing from over a year ago to putting my tongue inside her holiest of holies. I felt obligated to be honest with her about my intentions. She was my friend and I didn’t want to do anything that would mess up our friendship.
   But Cassidy was too damn horny to wait.
   She half-rolled her best friend out of the way, spread her legs to the sides and hooked her legs over my shoulders.“Do it Ben! Do it!”
   I felt a flash of extra arousal shoot through me as my brain interpreted‘Do it’ in a slightly different way. So with my mind visualizing my hard cock spearing through Cassidy’s strange and new pussy, I bent my head and popped my tongue into the pretty redheaded teen’s sopping wet twat and then licked my way up until I flicked my tongue against her clit.
   She went nuts.
   After ten minutes of rubbing herself and watching her best friend scream her way to two orgasms, Cassidy was more than ready. Her thighs tightened around my head, my hands gripping onto her shapely thighs, and I burrowed my face deeper into her red crotch. And all the while Cassidy could not shut up about how fantastic it all felt.“Ben! Ben! Eat me! Holy shit! Holy shit! It’s amazing! Eat me!”
   Less than thirty seconds later, Cassidy shrieked and quivered with her first orally-stimulated orgasm.“Aaaaaaagggghhhh!”
   My face was wet to begin with. Cassidy turned out to be a squirter, and she absolutely DRENCHED me.
   It was incredible. The taste, the feeling, the screaming. With my cheeks being squeezed together by the naked thighs of a pretty girl I’d never touched this intimately before, and as she screamed her orgasmic delight, I felt myself completely taken over by lust. I groaned into Cassidy’s pussy and then I just started munching again.
   I licked her. I sucked on her clit. I stabbed my tongue into her snatch. And I did my head-vibrating paint-shaker thing. And just as I felt Cassidy peaking once again, I popped a finger into her ass.
   “Holy FUCK!” Cassidy wailed as she came, squirting honey all over my face again. And she clamped around me so tight that I couldn’t breathe anymore.
   If her orgasm had lasted any longer, I might have actually suffocated. But fortunately, she relaxed her legs and I pried them apart, picking my head up to gasp for oxygen.
   Cassidy was still flying high. Her eyes were wild and her chest was rising and falling with every deep breath. And with a look of pure lust on her face, she spread her legs to the sides and opened her arms to me with a come hither gesture.
   And then she gasped,“Fuck me, Ben!”
   YES. My vision sharpened and focused on the spread-wide redheaded teen before me, naked below the waist with a wet and open bare pussy. My sense of sound muted away until all I could hear was my own thudding heartbeat. And my lips pulled back in a hungry/happy grin.
   I stood up and paused just long enough to snake my jeans and shorts down to my ankles, not even taking the time to drop them off my feet. And then I was on top of Cassidy with my cock in my fist while she gripped my shoulders and guided me over her.
   Dimly, I heard Megan’s exclamation of ‘Ben!’ echo faintly, but then the tip of my cock was between Cassidy’s labia, and with a powerful thrust I pushed my way inside. Drew had been right. Cassidy was tight.
   “Ungh!” I saw more than heard the grunt come from Cassidy’s mouth as I entered her and pushed until I hit rock bottom, my pelvis banging against her crotch. And then her lips turned from an ‘O’ into a smile and automatically my head dropped until I could taste her lips on my own.
   Cassidy’s tongue snaked into my mouth and I suckled on it briefly before pulling both my head back and my hips. Cassidy’s hands moved down to grasp my biceps as I readied myself for the next plunge, and then there was no mistaking the wide smile on her face as I pumped my thick cock into her body onceagain.
   “Oh, Ben!” I watched Cassidy mouth my name while her hand went to my cheek. She looked feverishly happy and fulfilled and I smiled radiantly back at her while my hips kept up their pistoning motion. Her emerald eyes sparkled as she stared at me, begging for more pleasure. So I slammed forward and then held my hips tight against her, rotating my hips to grind my pelvic bone over her clit. And I felt incredibly good seeing the pretty 16-year-old close her eyes and glow with the pleasurable feelings I was causing in her.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” Cassidy’s mouth gaped while her eyelids fluttered rapidly. Her hands tightened around me and she bucked her hips up to try and pull me even deeper into her body. It was incredible. For someone who’d only had “bad” sex with a jerk and that not in over six months, Cassidywas quite the hot lay. “More Ben… Gimme more…”
   And then it felt like there was a third hand on me. Cassidy’s left arm was still on my bicep while her right was cupping my shoulder blade. And on that same shoulder, I felt a tug back.
   Dimly, I looked to the side and saw Megan staring at me with a horrified expression on her face, trying to pull me away. She was saying something but I was still so gone into my lust that my ears were still disconnected from my brain. And then I felt Cassidy begin to spasm beneath me, her pussy muscles pulsing so wonderfully around my cock that I ceased to care about anything except my own ejaculation.
   Cassidy threw her head back, her mouth gaping open. Her back arched, and she was clearly in the throes of a powerful climax. I thrust twice more as my balls readied themselves to bursting, and then I felt a painful slap against my bare cheek.
   “Oww!!!” I yelled and turned my head, and all of a sudden I could hear again. But my body was on automatic and I kept thrusting my way through Cassidy’s climax, her shrieking almost loud enough to drown out my own yell.
   Megan was in front of me again with wild eyes.“SHE’S NOT ON THE PILL!” she screamed right into my face.
   If I came, I might knock Cassidy up. My first instinctive thought was, ’AWESOME’. I could already picture a million tadpoles racing through my cock and flooding into Cassidy’s teenage womb in search of her egg. And with that thought, my balls compressed as my orgasm began.
   Even with Megan trying to shove me out of her best friend, I stayed buried in the teenaged girl’s pussy. Cassidy was so far gone into her orgasm that she could care less about anything else, and her legs were firmly locked and crossed behind my ass, holding me deep inside her. And I had already passed beyond any semblance of self-control, having neither the willpower nor awareness to pull out.
   I roared and my thick cock spat out a wad of semen straight into the back of Cassidy’s pussy, splattering her cervix and pushing forward into her womb. Her vaginal walls quivered with her own orgasm, the vibrations helping my sperm along and deeper into her body. My hips hunched, and then I blasted a second wave of sperm-laden cum into her uterus, feeling deliriously happy as I did so.
   Only then did Cassidy’s legs give out and drop to the bed. Only then did my body go limp enough for Megan to shove at me with every ounce of her strength and finally push me back far enough for my dick to slip free of Cassidy’s vaginal tunnel. And while I groaned in the grip of climax and fell backward, my cock spit out another jet of cum that splashed harmlessly onto the bedspread between Cassidy’s legs. The rest of my load soon joined the first wad, dribbling out of me as I panted from the exertion.
   “You IDIOT!” Megan shoved my shoulder again while I looked at her dumbly. She looked at the puddle of jizz on the bedspread and sighed with what looked like relief for a moment. But then her eyes moved to Cassidy’s crotch where she saw the obvious oozing of semen leaking out from between her best friend’s pussy lips. And seized with another bout of rage, my girlfriend turned and viciously slapped me once again.
   “Oww!!!” I yelled and held my cheek, the pain snapping me out of my post-orgasmic bliss.
   “Stupid! Stupid boys!” Megan ranted before leaning over Cassidy, who was dazed with her head lolling side-to-side. “Cassidy! Cass!” She lightly slapped her friend’s cheeks, trying to get her aware and focused. Her anger at me was momentarily tempered by her concern for her best friend.
   At that point, I realized what I had done. I looked down at my limp member still coated with Cassidy’s juices, and a glob of white cum was oozing out of my tip. My eyes darted to Cassidy’s pussy, which by now had oozed out a lot more semen that ran down her crack and onto the bedspread. I groaned, “Oh, shit.”
   Cassidy’s eyes finally focused and she offered a silly grin to her best friend. “Hi, Megan. That was wonderful…”
   “Cassidy, I want you to listen to me very carefully,” Megan said in the tone of a concerned parent. Scarily, she sounded just like Mrs. Kwan. “Today is Monday, November 20. When was your last period? I can’t remember if it was two weeks or three.”
   “Huh?”
   “Focus, Cassidy. When was your last period?”
   “Uh… I… I don’t know,” Cassidy said fuzzily, her eyebrows knitting together. “I circled it on my calendar.”
   “Right,” Megan snapped her fingers and was off the bed in a flash, running bottomless out the door and down the hall.
   I quickly moved to the bed with concern on my face.“Oh, Cassidy, I’m so sorry.”
   Realization finally dawned on Cassidy’s face as she sat up and looked down between her own legs and saw my cum running out of her pussy. “Oh, SHIT! Ben! Did you cum in me?”
   “I couldn’t help it,” I shook my head in apology.
   “Ben!” Terror crossed the pretty redhead’s face.
   Megan came back just then, sighing and leaning against the door.“I think you’re okay. You circled October 27. That’s 24 days ago, so I’m pretty sure you’re not fertile anymore.”
   “Pretty sure?” Cassidy gaped. “Pretty sure? You’re not the one with five gallons of sperm leaking out of your unprotected womb!”
   Megan sighed,“Well, you’re pretty regular. You’re due this Friday. Since school’s out for Thanksgiving, I’ll come over and stay with you. I’m sure it’ll be alright.” Megan was trying to put on a brave face for her friend as she moved over and sat down beside her friend.
   “Yeah,” I latched onto the idea. “Maybe I should come hang out, too.”
   “Go home, Ben,” Megan said in a harsh voice without looking at me.
   “Megan…” I began.
   “Go home. You’ve done enough for one day, don’t you think?” Her tone was bitter.
   I opened my mouth to say something, but my jaw just hung there and no sound came out. Then I bit my lip and nodded. My jeans and boxers were still around my ankles, and I pulled them up and tucked myself away before fastening the jeans.
   Then taking a deep breath, I stepped forward towards the girls.
   Perhaps thinking I was going to try and kiss her goodbye, Megan just shied away from me. I didn’t blame her. I probably wasn’t even supposed to fuck Cassidy, just provide her first oral experience, which meant I’d just cheated on my girlfriend, and right in front of her, too.
   But I couldn’t help but feel concerned for Cassidy and I went straight for her. Ignoring her nudity for the moment, I simply put my hands to her shoulders and then bent to softly kiss her forehead. She sighed when I did it, her tone fortunately not annoyed or upset. And then I turned away and left the bedroom.
   I was shaking by the time I got to the front door.* * *
   I was on pins and needles for the rest of the evening. Brooke was able to easily evaluate the change in my mood from the time I dropped her off to the time I returned home, but I wasn’t volunteering any information and she wasn’t prying.
   I was abnormally quiet at the dinner table. And when my mom asked what was bothering me I just told her I was having girl troubles. She nodded as if she understood, but I was pretty sure she had no clue. If she had known, I’d be getting the scolding of my life instead of quietly pushing my peas around my plate.
   I didn’t get any sleep that night.* * *
   The next day both Megan and Cassidy avoided me. Kenny wanted to know what was going on when the girls had their lunch with Stephanie Vo and Emily Anderson around a different area. Elaine immediately assumed I’d done something to piss my girlfriend off, since the last time she herself went to eat lunch with the other friends was when Daniel had pissed her off.
   The girls and I had no shared classes this quarter, but it was reported back to me that the girls weren’t talking to any of our friends, asking to be alone for a bit. Their girl friends gave them their space and the guys instinctively tiptoed around them as well. In fact, Megan and Cassidy had such a black cloud hanging over them that even Drew Walker just avoided the girls, not daring to invite their wrath.
   I did get two rays of hope, however. When leaving the main quad, Megan passed behind me and I felt her trail her fingers across my back for a moment before she continued away without looking at me. And before the last period, I passed Cassidy in the hallway and she looked up at me with a small, hopeful smile. I smiled back, but when I stopped to say something, Cassidy just ducked her head and hurried along in the opposite direction.
   I didn’t get any sleep that night, either.* * *
   I was surprised as hell on Wednesday afternoon when Cassidy met me outside my last period. I was also abundantly thankful. Tomorrow would be Thanksgiving and I was afraid I wouldn’t see the girls again until the following Monday because of the brief school vacation.
   “Hi, Ben,” Cassidy said in a gentle voice with a little smile on her face.
   “Cassidy, hey,” I replied once I got my tongue untied.
   “Can I talk to you for a sec?”
   “Of course!” I glanced around and started heading towards a quiet alcove. It wouldn’t be private but we’d be out of the general traffic.
   Once we got there, she took a deep breath and then gave me another small smile.“You were wonderful on Monday.”
   I blushed with pride but then winced at the memory of how things ended.“Cassidy, I can’t tell you how sorry I am. Everything just got so crazy and I lost my head and—”
   “It’s okay, it’s okay,” she shushed me and put her hand on me. “I mean, I THINK it’s going to be okay. Megan and I went and did a lot more intense research on it and while it’s statistically possible to get pregnant from having sex at 24 days, it’s REALLY, REALLY not supposed to happen that way. I dunno if I’m totally in the clear. It’s just that the research reassures me and I’m convinced we’re alright.”
   I sighed. I knew some basics but I really didn’t know that much. I just figured that if a girl wasn’t on the pill, I could knock her up at any time. At least, that was what my parents had warned me.
   “Besides,” Cassidy continued. “It’s still partially my fault. We weren’t supposed to have sex that day, but I distinctly remember begging you to fuck me. Like you said, everything got so crazy. I never imagined how horny I’d get when you were going down on me.” Cassidy’s green eyes lit up with wonder. “It was the most INCREDIBLE experience of my life, Ben. I take back everything bad I said about sex. You were THAT good.”
   I winced and smiled at the same time. I was happy with the praise but I barely remembered the sex, clouded with the fog of my panic as it was.
   “Anyways, I can’t keep you long. Megan doesn’t want either of us to see you or talk to you until my period comes and we know we’re safe. And she’s still really mad at you for having sex with me. Well, she’s mad at me too, saying you’re just a guy and you couldn’t help it when I toldyou to fuck me. But I couldn’t let you go on like this. You’ve looked like somebody shot your best friend or something these past couple of days. But you should know I’ll be fine.”
   “We still don’t know that, Cassidy,” I said in a worried tone.
   “I’ll be fine,” she reassured me. “You’ll see.”
   Cassidy blushed and then giggled.“And if I’m not, you’ll just have to marry me!”
   My eyes went wide in shock, but Cassidy just bounced away, laughing as she turned to walk off. She was already pulling her headphones up and bouncing to the music only she could hear.
   I just stared after the happy Irish lass, her copper hair brilliant in the afternoon sunlight. For a brief moment, she looked so radiantly beautiful that I felt my knees go weak. I always liked Cassidy and for that moment, I thought that it might be really nice being married to her. The way she was facing her own possible teenage pregnancy and could still be cheery just amazed me. I didn’t understand it at all.
   Then again, they say a pregnant woman glows. Could that be why she looked so radiant?
   Once again scared shitless, I turned and walked towards my locker, my feet heavily dragging with every step.* * *
   “Are you alright, Ben?” My mom stood in the doorway to my bedroom, looking at me lying in my bed with a book in my hands. On any other Friday, I’d be out on a date with Megan. But on this Friday, I was just lying here, staring at the phone and waiting for the girls to call.
   They HAD to call tonight. A non-call could only mean that Cassidy’s period didn’t come.
   “I’m fine, Mom.”
   “You sure? You look a little pale.”
   “I’m just overstuffed. Too much turkey.” I’d gorged myself on last night’s Thanksgiving Dinner. Hey, I was still a growing boy. And then of course today’s meals were entirely made up of turkey leftovers.
   “If you say so.” My mom nodded and started backing out of the room, closing the door behind her. “By the way Ben, your book is upside-down.”
   My eyebrows jumped and I looked at the book to find that yes, it was upside-down. I glanced up just in time to see my mom’s smirk before the door closed.
   I sighed.
   Please call…* * *
   I’d nearly fallen asleep when the phone rang. Scrambling, I managed to knock my clock off the nightstand before I grabbed the line while yelling to the rest of the house, “I GOT IT!”
   “Hello?” I said breathlessly.
   “It’s me,” came back Megan’s voice. “Cassidy’s period came. You’re off the hook.”
   My exhalation was so loud it nearly deafened me as I heard the blowing noise feedback through the phone’s earpiece. I then quickly gathered my wits. “Can I come over?”
   “No, Ben. Cassidy’s parents are home. We’ll talk to you Monday.”
   “Okay, I—”
   [click]
   She’d hung up. My girlfriend had hung up on me. I wasn’t out of the woods yet.* * *
   I couldn’t get to Cassidy’s house fast enough. Brooke had to yell at me to drive slower because she didn’t want to die on the drive home after school on Monday. But the instant I dropped her off, I peeled out and left rubber marks on the street in front of our house.
   The girls had played their avoidance game for another day. I had some hope at school when Megan gave me a weak smile and Cassidy gave me a warmer one, but the fact that they were still avoiding me did not bode well. Kenny had the nerve to ask if Megan was available now and I nearly punched him in the teeth.
   Both girls were in the living room when I arrived. They were fully dressed and I was under the distinct impression that the bedroom would not be used on this particular visit.
   Megan looked at me coldly, and I dared not approach her just yet. But then I saw Cassidy and saw the radiant look on her face. I don’t think a girl was ever more happy to have her period. Without thinking, I quickly went over to her but then Megan’s voice stopped me in my tracks. “Sit down, Ben,” Megan said in a calm voice.
   Nervously, I sat and looked at the girls, warily reading for any hints of their moods. Megan was giving me mixed signals that didn’t help me at all. But Cassidy’s smile was warm and genuine. “You’re okay?” I asked the redhead.
   “Yeah, I’m okay.”
   I could help but sigh in relief. But there was still a dark cloud hanging over us, and I turned my gaze to my girlfriend.
   Megan was clearly in charge of this little discussion, and both Cassidy and I waited for her to begin. My girlfriend collected her thoughts and then took a deep breath. And in a stern tone, she said,“Just to have everything out in the open, I’m not mad at you anymore, Ben. But I am very disappointed. I thought you were different, but it turns out you’re just a guy like everyone else.”
   I winced and tried to will my apology through my eyes as I looked at Megan. But she just continued in her hurt voice.“’Guys just want sex.’ My mom told me. My friends told me. But I thought you were the nice guy. I thought you had the control to accept what we offered and not push anything further.”
   I closed my eyes and hung my head at the verbal lashing. I knew I wasn’t really a nice guy. I just played one. I was really as horny as every other 16-year-old, with the possible exception of Kenny.
   “You weren’t supposed to have sex with Cassidy, Ben,” Megan stated what I’d already assumed. “You CERTAINLY weren’t supposed to cum in her. But you couldn’t control yourself, and that makes me worry. What else can you not control? If a pretty girl throws herself at you in the future, can you be loyal to me?”
   I thought Megan was asking a rhetorical question, continuing on with her sermon. But then she just stared at me and cocked her head as if expecting an answer. Belatedly, I cleared my throat and took a deep breath.“Uh… well… honestly, I don’t know. I’d like to think so, but until I’m in that situation, I don’t know how I’d react.”
   “You WERE in that situation, Ben,” Megan said coldly. “And you FUCKED her.”
   “That’s a totally different situation!” I protested. “YOU invited Cassidy into the bedroom with us. You had her pussy wide open and you told me to eat her. Once we got started, I just lost my head. When she asked me to fuck her, how was I supposed to say no?”
   “By saying ‘no’,” Megan said condescendingly. “Or at least looking to me to ask for permission or something.”
   I had no answer to that. And Cassidy simply looked at us as an observer.
   Megan looked up and closed her eyes, looking on the verge of tears.“Ben… Ben… I think I still love you… I just don’t know if I can ever trust you again.”
   She did burst into tears just then, and instinctively I got up and went to sit beside her, wrapping her up in a hug. Sympathizing with her best friend, Cassidy also slid over and wrapped her arms around Megan, concern etched on her own face.
   “It’s my own damn fault,” Megan moaned. “I created the fucked-up situation.”
   “No, it’s not your fault,” Cassidy whispered and stroked Megan’s hair. “It’s my fault. You only did what you did because you were my friend and I asked for it. And then I was the one who demanded that he fuck me. It’s my fault.”
   “It’s MY fault,” I insisted. “I should have had better self-control.”
   And together, the three of us held each other, shuddering with our emotions. Megan was crying. Cassidy was fighting back her own tears. And I was being torn apart inside from my own guilt.
   “I love you, Ben,” Megan pleaded.
   “I love you, too,” I husked, meaning it with both affection and apology. I still wasn’t sure if I felt the same way for her as I had with Dawn, but Megan needed to hear it. Somehow, along the way, I HAD grown to deeply care about my girlfriend.
   “Ben…” Cassidy whimpered. “I’m in love with you, too.”
   What? Megan went rigid, and I tensed up in shock as well.
   Cassidy whimpered for a few more seconds before she realized what she’d just said, and then in horror she quickly backed away across the couch. “Oh, Megan! Megan… I’m sorry. I didn’t mean… Well… oh, SHIT.”
   But rather than look angry, Megan canted her head in wonder.“Cass…”
   Cassidy went silent and reflexively, I tightened my grip around my girlfriend. Megan let me hold her but her tears stopped as she sat up straight and fixed her gaze on her best friend.“Say that again?” Megan queried.
   “Oh, Megan, I–I— uh, oh, shit.” Cassidy’s head was jerking around spastically and her hands were fluttering all over the place as if she couldn’t stay still if her life depended on it. “I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I never meant to say anything. I know he’s your boyfriend and I would NEVER try to steal him. But I couldn’t help it! I can’t control the way I feel. I’m in love with him. I–I-… uh, oh, shit.”
   “Wait, wait, wait,” Megan moved out of my grasp and went forward, taking Cassidy’s hands into her own and staring straight into the eyes of her best friend. “Slow down. Slow down. Take a deep breath.”
   With wild green eyes, Cassidy’s jaw kept waggling up and down for a couple of seconds before she managed to calm herself. She took several deep breaths and stared at where Megan was holding her hands.
   Cassidy finally managed to calm herself and she looked at her best friend with imploring eyes.“I can’t help it, Megan. I don’t know when it started exactly, but I’m in love with him. Whenever he talks to me at school or even here, he makes butterflies in my stomach. When I dream about dancing with a boy at Prom, I’m picturing Ben. And when I’m masturbating and listening to you two having sex, I’m fantasizing that it’s ME beneath him. You have no idea how much of a dream come true it was for me last Monday, even with the whole pregnancy scare. It was worth it. Because for one afternoon, I finally got to have him.”
   Megan looked confused.“What? How?”
   “It all started when Drew dumped me for the second time last spring. I finally realized how much of an asshole he was for just using me for sex and ignoring me the rest of the time. Once he had another girl he thought was hotter than me, he dropped me. And that got me thinking about all our dateswhere he pushed and pushed and groped and guilt-tripped me into doing everything for him. And then I was thinking about Ben and how sweet he was and how he never pushed me to do anything I wasn’t comfortable with. Ben was such a nice guy and a great friend and as he was growing, he was starting to get really, really handsome. But just when I started thinking about asking him to go out with me again, you and he were flirting and getting really close and the next thing I knew, you two were an item.”
   “Yeah…” Megan sighed happily as she thought back on the previous spring when she and I got together.
   “And then you just HAD to tell me every little detail of your relationship. Don’t get me wrong, I wanted to know; but the more you told me, the hornier I got and also the more jealous I got. Ben treated you so much better than Drew ever treated me. He didn’t push you to have sex when you weren’t ready and even declined when you offered and he realized you were still scared. He always made sure that you came before he did. And he cuddled with you afterwards instead of just rolling off like he was just done using you.” Cassidy swooned blissfully.
   Megan reached back and pulled me to her, hugging my arm tightly around her waist while still holding onto Cassidy with her other hand.
   “I was sooo jealous of you, Megan,” Cassidy continued. “I knew I wanted someone like that for me. I wanted someone like Ben. I just couldn’t find another guy like him which was why I never dated. I had this ideal in my head that no boy ever matched. And then somewhere along the line, I realized that I didn’t just want someone like Ben. I wanted BEN.”
   Cassidy took a deep breath and smiled wistfully.“I’d HAD him. I’d had Ben first. But I made the biggest mistake of my life and I dumped him for fucking-dickwad-Drew Walker. And I’ve spent the last six months kicking myself for that mistake. Look Megan, you’re my very best friend in the whole world. I’d never intentionally do anythingto hurt you and I certainly never wanted to do anything to make you and Ben break up. But last Monday was the greatest thing that’s ever happened to me. And I can’t regret it.”
   Cassidy pinched her lips together and looked both hopeful and frightened. Her emerald eyes sparkled and wavered back and forth across Megan’s face, searching for some non-verbal sign of her best friend’s reaction.
   Megan exhaled slowly and then turned to look at me, biting her lower lip. Then she turned back to Cassidy, blinking several times while the wheels in her brain were clearly turning. And then exhaling again, she looked up at Cassidy and asked,“If you had the chance, would you have sex with Ben again?”
   Cassidy blinked twice before looking at me and then back to Megan.“In a heartbeat,” she answered.
   “Even though he’s my boyfriend?”
   “Megan, I told you I’d never do anything to hurt you on purpose. I won’t have sex with him. I won’t do anything to steal him from you. I couldn’t live with myself. And if you order me to never touch him again while you two are still together, I won’t.” Cassidy paused and breathed. “But you said if I had the chance… so yeah, if given the chance, I’d fuck him in a heartbeat. And if you ever do break up with Ben, I’m going to be ALL over him.”
   Megan took a few more deep breaths and then she slowly stood up. Then after glancing upwards for a second, she looked down on us and then reached out with both her hands.
   “Come on.”
   “Come on where?” Cassidy asked first. I stayed silent.
   “To the bedroom.”
   “Huh?” Cassidy and I both grunted at the same time, clearly not understanding.
   “We’re all going to have sex. Right now,” Megan stated firmly and then looked to her friend. “You’re in the middle of your period, so you don’t have to if you don’t want to. But we can get a condom and put a towel on the bed also. Elaine said she did that every now and again when she was too horny to resist.”
   “Wait, what?” My brain was confused, but my dick had already started to harden at the prospect.
   “I love you both.” Megan smiled at the redhead. “Cassidy, you’re my best friend and I couldn’t bear to keep you from what makes you happy. If you really want Ben, I… I think I can share him. I made that decision when I invited you into the bedroom in the first place. I kinda knew you two might eventually have sex once I got him eating you out. Now this is just the result of that decision. I don’t know yet how the whole boyfriend/girlfriend thing is going to work out, but we can talk about that later.”
   Megan took a deep breath and then looked at me a little more harshly.“Now YOU, Mister Walking Hormone. I still love you, Ben. But I’m also still afraid I can’t trust you. But this is the best situation you’re gonna get. You’ve got two hot babes who are in love with you and want to fuck your brains out. And we’re gonna do our best to keep your balls drained so that Mr. Happy has no need to lead you astray. But so help me, if one of us catches you so much as THINKING about sticking your dick into someone else, I swear I will cut it OFF! Do you hear me?”
   I whimpered,“Even THINKING?”
   Megan chuckled at the obvious panic on my face.“Well, maybe not ‘thinking’. You’re just a guy. But seriously, you cheat on us and it’s OVER. Got it? Any other boy at school would be happy to have two girlfriends.”
   She reached down and patted my cock, which had slightly deflated at the thought of being violently disconnected from the rest of my body.“There, there,” Megan said soothingly while she rubbed my prick. “I’d never really hurt you, big fella. I almost love you more than the rest of Big Ben here.”
   Cassidy giggled at the thought.“I’m gonna run to my room to get some condoms. But other than that, what are we waiting for?”* * *
   By the time Cassidy joined us, Megan had just about worked me out of my shock with an array of kisses, caresses, and repeat use of the phrase,“I love you, Ben.”
   She’d also gotten my shirt off and was yanking down my jeans when Cassidy knelt on the bed beside Megan and shyly asked, “Can you… can you teach me?”
   Megan had worked my jeans and shorts down to my ankles while I lay flat across the bed, so my erection was waving upright and curving back towards my stomach. Cassidy couldn’t take her eyes off the seven-and-a-half inch column of manflesh, but Megan turned to look at her friend. “Teach you?”
   Cassidy blushed and her eyes tightened.“Drew said I couldn’t suck dick to save my life. I… I want to be better.”
   Megan grinned, and I soon had no reason for complaint either. Feeling two tongues licking my cock at the same time will forever be a highlight of my sexual life, as Megan worked one side while Cassidy mirrored her on the other side. Getting passed back and forth from one hot teen mouth to the next was pretty damn cool as well.
   And I’ll always remember Cassidy’s bright green eyes staring at me to soak in the happy expression on my face. I found that when I smiled, she sucked me even harder.
   But then Megan couldn’t wait any longer. She promised Cassidy they’d have many more opportunities to practice their blowjob techniques, but for now, she really needed her boyfriend to fuck her. After all, she hadn’t gotten laid in OVER a week, dating back to the Friday night before our fateful Monday encounter.
   So stripping naked and rolling onto her back, my girlfriend spread her legs and beckoned me to mount her, and as I heard Megan’s satisfied sigh while my meat filled her tight pussy, I finally started to believe everything would be alright in the end. My worries and panic over the potential death of my relationship had melted away.
   Soon, I had my girlfriend chanting her familiar,“Oh, yeah… oh, yeah…”
   Megan’s voice was joined by Cassidy’s, who had also gotten herself naked and was masturbating beside us. The redheaded teen grinned at us and enthused, “After months of listening to you two, I FINALLY get to watch you fuck.”
   I glanced over and ogled Cassidy’s larger breasts, which hung and swayed enticingly while she frigged herself and held herself up on one elbow. Meanwhile her hard nipples, flushed dark during her period, were just begging to be sucked. So I motioned the redhead to me, and she went positively nuts when I slurped her breasts between my lips.
   “Oh, Ben! Suck me! Suck my boobs!” Cassidy crooned. And then I was hearing her shriek again as she orgasmed from the dual stimulation of her fingers in her crotch and my tongue on her tits.
   After a couple minutes, Megan wanted my focus back on her so she pulled my head around so that we could kiss and swap spit while I piledrived my dick into her compliant body. And shortly after that, my girlfriend tensed up and came, her moaning and groaning music to my ears.
   I wasn’t far behind. I started grunting as I felt my control slipping away. Megan’s eyes lit up as she realized I was about to pop. But before I blew, Cassidy was beside her, pleading, “Can I have it? I need him to cum in my mouth. Please?”
   Megan giggled.“He’s covered in my pussy juice, Cass.”
   “I don’t care,” Cassidy quickly answered. “I need to taste him.”
   I didn’t care either. At this point, I just wanted to CUM.
   Megan nodded her approval, and Cassidy quickly moved her head next to my pounding hips. I thrust three more times into my girlfriend’s snatch, and then as I felt the tension in my balls come to a head, I yanked my cock out and twisted around to aim it towards the redhead teen.
   Cassidy was quick to suck me into her mouth, hoovering me powerfully. And then I felt myself let go as I poured out a river of semen down her throat, the volume and force causing her to gag after the first shot and then she was coughing as emptied out the rest of my cum all over her face.
   I sprayed the bridge of her nose and painted one of her eyelids shut. The rest splattered over her cheek and started dripping off her chin. Cassidy pulled her head back in absolute shock, with a gaping mouth and one eye wide open while she pinched the other shut and tried to rub my jizz off her eyelid.
   Megan was laughing as she saw her friend coated in my jism.“Same thing happened to me my first time with Ben. We’ll definitely have to practice that part.”
   Recovered after her momentary surprise, Cassidy then tasted me experimentally and even scooped some more off her chin to pop into her mouth.“Still salty. But not as disgusting as I remember. I think you simply taste better than Drew.” Then Cassidy bent to take the towel she’d brought and used it to help wipe up her face.
   Megan giggled again.“That’s not the only thing he’s better about. Kiss her Ben.”
   Cassidy lit up, just about done wiping all my jism off her face. I remembered Megan telling me that Drew would never kiss her after he’d cum in her mouth. So I leaned forward and tenderly planted my lips on Cassidy, reveling in the electric sparks shooting through me and casually ignoring the salty flavor. The happy moan Cassidy let out was more than enough compensation for my mild aversion to my own cum.
   I had just finished fucking one cute 16-year-old babe and I knew that soon I would be banging another, right after having cum in her mouth and on her face. Feeling inordinately proud of myself, I was floating on a high and grinned. Anything was possible now. So recalling back to the last time I was with two beautiful teenaged babes, my eyes lit up and I looked at Megan.“Why don’t you kiss her?”
   Megan chuckled and looked at me like a horn had grown out of my forehead.“We’re not lezzies, Ben.”
   Chagrined, I just shrugged.“Sorry. It would be HOT, though.”
   Megan arched an eyebrow and looked over at Cassidy, who shrugged. Then tentatively, the girls moved towards each other, tilting their heads to the sides and puckering up.
   Their kiss was awkward and a little uncomfortable for both of them. It was really just a peck and then they both backed away, Megan saying,“Nuh-uh” and Cassidy agreeing, “Nope. Not sexy.”
   The extra stirring in my cock would disagree, but I held my hands up.“Hey, no big deal. No pressure, no pushing, right?”
   Megan looked down at my cock, which had gotten half-hard despite the lack of passion in their kiss. She rolled her eyes,“Men…” But there was no heat in her voice, and there were certainly no recriminations as my girlfriend then bent over and began to revive me in her mouth.
   Soon I was hard again and this time, Cassidy was moving in to roll a condom over my erection. My face kind of wriggled around as I felt her putting it on me, and Megan took note of my expression.
   “Feel weird?”
   I shrugged.“Yeah. I’ve never used a condom before.”
   Megan chuckled and then looked as if she wanted to ask a question, but then shook her head.“Never mind. I don’t want to know.”
   I arched an eyebrow, but then Cassidy finished with her task and started jacking me in her hand. She got a twinkle in her emerald eyes and glanced over at Megan.“I want to be on top this time. But I want to see him eating you, too.”
   Megan’s eyes lit up. “Threesome!”
   Cassidy giggled.“I think we’re ALREADY having a threesome.”
   My eyes lit up, too. And then the girls were pushing and pulling at me to move me into position, quickly flattening me on my back while Cassidy straddled my hips and held my condom-covered cock upright.
   I groaned as the redhead impaled herself on me. Even though she was taller and bigger than Megan, damn this girl was tight! But when she started up her fucking motions, even with the narrow constriction of her pussy, I knew I could last a good long while. For one, I’d cum just recently and subsequent fuckings always lasted longer. And secondly, the thin layer of latex did a lot more to deaden the sensations than I’d thought. While Cassidy’s pussy was certainly pleasurable, it was a pleasure I could easily tolerate and I was able to thrust my hips into her with vigor and without worrying at all about prematurely busting my nut.
   But I could only do this for so long. Megan went to complete her end of the triple by straddling my face. Cassidy had to correct her and get Megan to turn around and face back the other way so that she could see her best friend’s pussy getting munched. And I soon found that from this angle, I could not only nibble on Megan’s clit and thrust my tongue inside her, I got a dirty idea and ran my tongue up to Megan’s asshole as well.
   Megan squealed when I rimmed her and promptly had me do it again. And the third time I ran my tongue around her anus, Cassidy got to see her best friend tip over into orgasm right in front of her face.
   “Oh, Ben! Fuck, you’re making me cum! I’m cumming on your face! Watch me Cassidy! Watch me CUM!”
   Megan’s orgasm seemed to trigger Cassidy’s, because a second later, Cassidy stopped humping my rod and I felt her tight pussy squeeze around me while she wailed, “I’m cumming, too! I’m cumming, too!”
   I grinned. My tongue wasn’t tired yet and with the condom, I was far from finished. Megan toppled off me and I picked up Cassidy, pushing her onto her back and then re-entering her pussy with a powerful thrust.
   “More Ben! Gimme more!” the redheaded teen cried. “I love this! I love you!”
   So I gave her more. More and more and more. I thrust and pounded while my girlfriend’s best friend drummed her heels against my back and pounded my chest while urgently fucking herself up at me. And even with the condom, pleasurable sensations got through enough to tip me over my edge. “I’m cumming, Cass! I’m cumming in you!”
   “YES!!!” Cassidy came one more time before I arched my back and filled the condom with all my sperm. She clawed at me, bucking and whimpering while I jerked my hips over and again, spurting out more and more jizz.
   When we were done, I pulled out and pulled off the condom myself, twisting it up and tossing it into the trash. Then I moved in between the girls on the bed. Settling onto my back, I grinned as Megan slid into the crook of my right arm and pillowed her head on my shoulder. On the other side, Cassidy cuddled in on my left side, resting her cheek against my chest.
   “I love you, Ben,” Megan said with the same passion and energy she’d expressed when we first had sex, way back during her birthday party.
   “I love you, Ben,” Cassidy added with the thrill of new passion and happiness in her voice.
   “I love this!” I enthused.
   Chapter 8: TripleNOVEMBER 2000, JUNIOR YEAR
   I felt like quite the rock star when I walked over to our usual lunch table on Tuesday with both Megan and Cassidy hanging onto my arms. We had to let go of each other to sit down; but once settled, both girls went out of their way to kiss my cheeks before digging into their food.
   “Oh. My. Gawd.” Abigail Sanders’ jaw dropped when it finally hit her. Two seconds later Allison Sanders repeated it as if there was an echo and suddenly there were two young brunettes staring at the three of us and completely ignoring their food. This of course got the attention of our other friends.
   When Kenny Doyle arrived, he soon realized that Cassidy was in his usual seat instead of sitting next to Megan. He went through his usual trying-to-be-funny flirting but Cassidy just giggled and wrapped herself around my right arm.
   “Dude!” Kenny drawled when he saw my smug grin and figured it out for himself.
   By then, we had the attention of half the table and in perfect coordination, both Megan and Cassidy leaned into me and kissed my cheeks at the same time, giggling constantly.
   “Oh. My. Gawd.” Elaine Fukuhara’s exclamation sounded like another echo of Abigail’s. “Are…? The three of you…?”
   Megan and Cassidy glanced at each other across me and started grinning. Post-coital yesterday, the three of us had gotten into a rather serious discussion about where we would go from here. Tentatively, the girls agreed to share me and both be my girlfriends. Mondays would be shared with all three of us at Cassidy’s house. Weekends we would play by ear if someone became available. And for now, Friday night dates would be with all three of us as well, unless one or the other girl couldn’t make it. They discussed trading turns, but neither girl wanted to miss a week with me.
   I groaned at what those dates would do to my wallet. I was stretching things pretty thin as it was. But I figured I could ask my parents for extra chores or things to boost my allowance, or even get a job. Having both Megan and Cassidy would be worth it.
   However, as far as all the parents were concerned, Megan and I were the only dating couple. None of us knew how our parents would react, and we all figured Megan’s parents would react rather negatively. But more to the point, Cassidy’s parents had no idea their daughter had ever had a steady boyfriend, much less was sexually active. They were absent parents who just didn’t have a clue and Cassidy had no intention of clueing them in.
   Unfortunately, that was why Cassidy could never get parental consent to get a birth control pill prescription, so we were stuck buying condoms for her. It would take a little extra maneuvering since Cassidy swore that post-condom penis tasted absolutely HORRIBLE, but I figured we’d eventually work out a cleaning system or something.
   Daniel started grinning and he elbowed Elaine, flashing her a suggestive look. But Elaine rolled her eyes and then bopped her boyfriend upside the head.“Don’t even think about it,” she spat.
   Abigail spoke up.“So how does it work?”
   I shrugged and Megan answered for us.“We’re not sure yet. It’s not like any of us have done this before.”
   “But we’ll make it work,” Cassidy said confidently.DECEMBER 2000, JUNIOR YEAR
   Our first date was wonderful. Believe it or not, Megan’s parents decided to go out on a date of their own, leaving Megan’s house wide open for us to play in. Everyone got fucked. Everyone was happy. And Megan was THRILLED to have sex in her own bed again, something we hadn’t done since I’d taken her virginity. I even alternated taking the girls while they lay back across Megan’s bed, fingering one while screwing the other. Megan and Cassidy spent the entire time looking at each other and giggling at how wild they were behaving.
   The following Monday was wonderful as well. Now that we were“together”, Cassidy was perfectly happy for us to all have sex in HER bed instead of using the guest room. The girls took turns and generally got excited for each other, and I started to have high hopes for this three-person relationship.
   But our second date was a disaster.
   Dinner was fine. We went to the usual burger shack and got only a few odd glances when both girls kissed me over fries and a milkshake. Conversation was easy and more than a little suggestive. It seemed to help that both Megan and Cassidy were turned on by watching the other have sex, even though they weren’t directly participating, and their comments to that effect had the expected result on my anatomy.
   We also caught a movie, each of them holding my hand throughout, although my fingers found their way to their legs and even between their legs on a couple of occasions. Both of their hands also meandered over my crotch more than once, the girls giggling whenever their hands met together over my bulge.
   The girls were even gracious about trading off who sat up front with me and I started to think this whole thing might really work. But once we drove to the beach parking lot, everything started to go downhill.
   It started with the physical limitations of a 1990 Toyota Corolla. Things were a tight squeeze with all three of us in the backseat, tight enough that neither girl could even find a comfortable position to give me a blowjob.
   Frustrated but still horny, we switched to the front-passenger-seat-reclining method with Cassidy sitting in my lap to fuck herself on me while Megan stayed in the backseat, leaning over my face to feed me her nipples and kiss me.
   Megan and I managed to make it work, even though it wasn’t very comfortable. But she was 5’4”. Cassidy was 5’8” and even with the angle, she banged her head on the roof twice which wasn’t very pleasant.
   Megan tried giving her advice on shifting her knees and going to a swirling motion while an annoyed Cassidy insisted to Megan,“I got it. I got it.”
   In a nutshell, everyone got frustrated and no one wound up getting off.
   Then, Cassidy leaned in and said,“I’ll make it up to you tomorrow.”
   I arched an eyebrow and Megan asked,“Tomorrow?”
   Cassidy nodded.“I just found out my parents are going out of town for the weekend. They’re leaving me home all alone.”
   The redhead fixed her green eyes on me and tapped her finger on my nose.“So… Big Ben… I thought I might get a little better acquainted with my new boyfriend.”
   “Ooh! We’re gonna have so much fun tomorrow!” Megan enthused. “I thought we’d have to wait until Monday!”
   “Uh, well, Megan…” Cassidy drawled and started to look apologetic. “I was kinda hoping Ben and I could be alone on Saturday. I mean, I’m not trying to shut you out or anything, really. It’s just that I’ve never really been alone with him. You had six months to go on solo dates and talk and have sex and everything. Is it okay if I just have Saturday?”
   The color drained out of Megan’s face and Cassidy quickly added. “We still have the Monday study group! That’s not so far away, is it?”
   “Oh, okay,” Megan nodded. “I mean, yeah… you two deserve some alone time,” she said with obvious dejection in her voice.
   I think Megan was hoping at that point for some guilt or at least sympathy from Cassidy. You know,‘I’m really sorry for taking him away from you but I just really need this but oh I’ll make it up to you because you’re my best friend.’
   But Cassidy didn’t react like that. Instead, she simply got excited and turned to me, kissing me fiercely. “We’re gonna have SUCH a good time tomorrow! And I can’t wait until I get on the pill!”
   Megan was stewing over her best friend’s seeming lack of remorse when the pill comment hit her. “Wait, pill, what?”
   “Wait, what?” I repeated.
   “Oh, yeah. I forgot to tell you guys,” Cassidy gushed. “I was talking with Elaine this morning and complaining about how I always have to use a condom because I couldn’t tell my parents I was having sex. But she told me that she got her prescription from Planned Parenthood, where they don’t require parental consent. She said that HER parents don’t really know she’s having sex either; or at least, they don’twant to know.”
   Cassidy giggled,“Soon, Ben. I can’t start them until my next period. But soon you’ll be able to just bend me over and take me whenever and wherever you want! Ooh, Megan, have you guys done it at school yet? Maybe in the janitor’s closet? Wouldn’t that be so kinky?”
   “Right,” Megan blinked, looking a little disturbed. I would find out later that she considered herself the “primary” girlfriend. Cassidy was an add-on because Megan had wanted her best friend to enjoy some happiness and good sex, but Megan would always be first. For one thing, she was on the pill and I could be more casual about having sex with her without worry. But now Cassidy would also be on the pill, so our sexual encounters wouldn’t have to be as orchestrated. And on top of that, Megan was being banished from us for a day while her best friend got to spend intimate alone time with me. That wasn’t sharing. Sharing was the three of us together. Me being alone was… beingalone… with my OTHER girlfriend.
   Of course, I didn’t know all this at the time. Megan bottled up her negative thoughts behind a mask of happiness for her best friend. So when I glanced at her to read her emotions, I saw nothing out of the ordinary and I simply chuckled along with Cassidy, imagining having kinky sex with her, without a condom, insome various places around the school. Maybe on top of the chemistry lab countertops?
   Thinking about the possibilities got me rock hard again, something that Cassidy took full advantage of as she got more careful about the roof and managed to bring us both off to pleasant orgasms.
   But Megan was out of the mood, and once we tried to include her, the foul mood spread and I ended up driving the girls home.
   Megan kissed me goodnight at least, promising to see me on Monday.* * *
   Perhaps I should have at least called Megan on Saturday. But I didn’t.
   I was too full of hot, naked redhead. Cassidy was really excited to have me all to herself for a day, and after I made an offhand comment about how gorgeous she looked naked, neither of us put any clothes on for the entire day.
   We screwed in the morning, Cassidy wanting to experiment by fucking over the couch and on the living room floor. We even tried the dining table, but she declared that the hard wood made her butt sore so we wound up moving back onto the couch to finish up and I filled the first condom near bursting.
   Cassidy then wanted to make love while listening to one of her all-time favorite romantic songs. Donning her usual headphones, my new girlfriend lay naked on her bed with her eyes closed, listening to some bubblegum pop ballad on repeat while I first went down on her and brought her off to a pleasant orgasm. I then donned a fresh condom and slowly pumped her to another climax before pouring out my second load.
   After that, we took a break. Cassidy then made us some food and we spent an hour just talking and also nibbling various bits of food off each other’s body. She even had me dunk my cock into a glass of orange juice, which was COLD. But I was soon warmed up inside her hot little mouth. And that started off a very nice blowjob where with just a few helpful pointers, Cassidy and I successfullyproved that she certainly COULD suck dick if her life depended on it. And she could suck dick quite well.
   She even started to get used to the taste of my spending, although she admitted that she would probably rather spit it out than swallow. I told her I didn’t mind.
   And then we spent the afternoon truly making love in her bed. I was gentle and I was kind, whispering romantic things into her ear and practicing everything Keira had taught me so long ago. I rather enjoyed experimenting and learning all of Cassidy’s buttons. And the same way a comedian can recycle the same old jokes to a new audience, I was able to show off my own little tricks for inducing pleasure in a brand new girl.
   By the time I left Cassidy’s house, I was a dehydrated but happily sated young man. And it didn’t hurt that I’d gotten to know her a lot better than I had before.
   Cassidy was my friend. We’d scratched the surface with each other a LONG time ago. There was no need to ask about each other’s family or basic things like what majors we planned on or what careers. But I’d never known before that Cassidy always wanted to have a kitten, but her parents would never let her. I’d neverknown she was afraid of the dark and slept with her table lamp on. I’d never known that she was absolutely happiest when I was spooned behind her with my arms wrapped tightly around her body.
   And SHE’D never known she’d actually like it when I started called her “Freckles” on the way out the door.
   “Don’t call me that!” Cassidy insisted. “I don’t like my freckles.”
   “I think they’re adorable,” I replied sincerely and reached over to caress her cheeks with my fingertips.
   Cassidy just blushed and then sighed,“Oh, alright.”
   “You’re sweet, Freckles,” I smiled and then kissed her goodbye.
   That evening, when I dragged myself exhausted to the dinner table, Brooke just gave me a knowing grin. Mom asked how my day was with my girlfriend and Brooke innocently added,“Which girlfriend?”
   My eyes went wide, but mom just chuckled and admonished Brooke,“Don’t play dumb, Brooke. You KNOW Ben’s girlfriend.”
   Brooke grinned her evil little grin. SHE’D heard the rumors around school, rumors that were getting traction now that we actually WERE a threesome. But I didn’t let Brooke bother me; it had been awonderful day.
   Still, I should have called Megan.* * *
   Sunday flew by without a second thought for either of my girlfriends. My parents had assigned me some chores to do in the afternoon. Once they’d realized I was capable of being a pretty good handyman with all the work I’d done for Keira, they’d occasionally hired me for more elaborate remodeling projects around our house as well.
   I didn’t mind. With two girlfriends, I needed the extra money. And I didn’t call either girl on Sunday. I was too busy worrying about two-by-fours and brackets.
   In fact, it was my little sister Brooke who brought my girlfriends to mind. I was on a self-imposed break from working, sipping a Gatorade while enjoying a light breeze in the backyard when she came out and plopped down in a chair beside me.“So the rumors are true? You’re dating both Megan and Cassidy?”
   I sipped my Gatorade and shrugged. Ever since camp, I’d promised to never lie to Brooke about dating or sexual matters. That didn’t mean I had to go out of my way to volunteer information, but if asked I would answer her honestly. “Yeah,” I nodded.
   “Are you having sex with both of them?”
   “Yeah.”
   “Don’t they get jealous?” Brooke twisted her face up. “I mean, if I caught Perry even KISSING another girl, I’d get really pissed at him.”
   “Most girls would. But Megan and Cassidy are different. They’re best friends.”
   Brooke snorted.“Jennifer is MY best friend. If I caught Perry kissing her I’d be even MORE mad.”
   I shrugged and waggled my Gatorade bottle, thinking of Brooke and Jennifer Vo, Stephanie’s little sister. “I don’t have a good answer to that. When Megan found out Cassidy was in love with me, she invited her to join us. It just goes to show how much she cares about her best friend being happy, that she’d even share her boyfriend.”
   Brooke looked at the ground.“I guess. I mean, I’d want Jennifer to be happy. But there’s a difference between sharing candy bars and clothes versus sharing a boy.” Brooke blushed. “I mean, I won’t even share Crunch bars with Jennifer because I like them too much. A Kit Kat or Skittles or whatever, sure. But if I can’t even share a Crunch bar, then no way could I share Perry.”
   I smiled at my little sister’s analogy. “What’s that supposed to mean? I’m just a Kit Kat to Megan?”
   Brooke smiled.“Maybe. You ARE pretty worthless…” But then she sighed. “But be careful Ben. I shared my Crunch bars with Jennifer back in the beginning because I wanted to be a good friend. But underneath, I still resented it; and it ate away at me for months and started ruining my relationship with her. In the end, she said it was no big deal and I could keep my Crunch bars. But if she hadn’t, we might actually not be friends anymore. Over a stupid candy bar.”
   “Well I’m not just a candy bar, Brooke.”
   “No you’re not. You’re a boyfriend. Girls are a little more possessive about those.”* * *
   Monday was tense. There was something going on between my two girlfriends and while they were polite to each other, they weren’t as friendly as usual at school.
   But once we got to Cassidy’s house in the afternoon, the girls and I got down to business in a hurry. Since she’d had me all Saturday, Cassidy graciously offered to let Megan go first.
   But to both our surprise, Megan put on a sweetly honeyed voice and said,“No… please… you’re thenew girlfriend. YOU should go first.”
   “Um… okay…” Cassidy replied more in confusion than excitement. We could both tell there was something forced in Megan’s tone. But when Megan insisted, Cassidy was only too happy to get naked and flop onto her back while I proceeded to remind her how good I was at eating pussy.
   Megan took it upon herself then to remind me how goodshe was at sucking dick. And I was very appreciative.
   Once Cassidy got her first orgasm, she then offered to swap places with Megan. My first girlfriend just popped off and said in her syrupy voice,“No, no… you go on and have all the pleasure you want. I’m more interested in pleasing MY man.”
   Cassidy looked confused, especially when Megan’s eyebrows popped up as she said the phrase “MY man”. The redhead might have even stopped and tried to talk to her friend, but me being a guy, I was more interested in sex than conversation, so I simply groaned happily as Megan tongued my cockhead and pushed Cassidy back to work her up to another orgasm. And once my tongue swiped along her pussy lips, her worries were washed away again.
   When Cassidy peaked again, there were no more questions. Megan already had the condom out and slipped onto my erection, so it was an easy matter to slide up and bury myself to the root inside my new girlfriend. We fucked each other to nice climaxes, and after Cassidy finished squirming beneath me, Megan was beside us stroking her friend’s hair and saying sweetly, “I’m sohappy that I can give you such pleasure by sharing MY boyfriend with you.”
   From the tension in Cassidy’s jaw, it seemed that her blissful post-orgasmic feelings were evaporating quite quickly. “OUR boyfriend, Megan. He loves us BOTH,” the redhead clarified.
   Megan’s smile was anything but sweet. “Right. OUR boyfriend.” Her eyes narrowed.
   Cassidy grinned and all of a sudden, I started to realize something was off. But before I could react, Cassidy had rolled me over, removed the condom and was wiping me up with the moistened towel she’d remember to bring. And in the same syrupy tone Megan had been using all morning, she crooned, “And now it’s YOUR turn, Megan dear. I’m sohappy that OUR boyfriend can give you such pleasure now.”
   And then the redhead switched to a commanding tone that was anything but sweet. In a deep voice, Cassidy growled,“Eat her out, Ben. Make her SCREAM.”
   I reacted instinctively to the order and quickly rolled Megan onto her back, kissing her and massaging her firmly to try and ease the inexplicable tension in her muscles. My first girlfriend started panting when my lips got around her nipples, and soon she began whimpering as my mouth approached its destination. Whatever else was going on in her head, she hadn’t had sex since the past Monday, six days ago, and she was quite wound up.
   Megan did scream. She had her first orgasm barely two minutes into my oral attention while Cassidy lavished her own oral attention on my quickly reviving cock. The petite brunette was close to another climax when I pronounced myself hard enough to shatter bricks and I moved up to enter my second tight pussy of the morning.
   I brought Megan to the brink of orgasm, teasing her on its very edge, and then I pushed the petite brunette over into ecstasy when I slammed my dick into her body. And this time, even though I had the extra staying power from having cum once before, feeling a tight pussy naked with my own skin instead of latex had me very, very excited.
   It must have shown in my fucking, because I rode Megan harder and with more aggression than I had Cassidy, something that both girls noticed. Spurred on by my passion, Megan fucked herself back at me with every ounce of energy she had, the two of us putting on a raunchy and exciting display of sex that turned out to be one of the best fuckings of our lives.
   “Oh, FUCK ME, BEN! FUCK ME!” Megan screamed.
   “I’m fucking you! I’m fucking you! So good, baby! So tight, so good!” I howled right back.
   When I came, it was with my face buried against Megan’s neck, screaming my lungs out while my whole body tensed and I absolutely exploded inside of her, flooding her pussy with so much cum that it almost immediately bubbled out around my cock and started drenching the towel beneath us.
   When we were done, Megan rolled me off of her and then quickly ducked her head to slurp up all the juices from my cock, both mine and her own, without having to pause for condom removal or cleaning. And when she sat back on her heels, she didn’t even look at me. I was a toy that once used, could now be discarded. Instead, Megan’s beatific smile was entirely for Cassidy, who fidgeted nervously and refused to meet her best friend’s gaze.
   You could cut the tension in the air with a dull spoon.
   I didn’t understand what was going on, but I knew I didn’t like it. So mumbling some excuse about having to get home, I quickly got dressed and ran away.* * *
   On Tuesday at school, the girls were going out of their way to shower me with affection. Megan cornered me by my locker and then proceeded to give me a deeply passionate kiss right in front of everyone. She even brushed her hand over my bulge and giggled cutely before kissing me again.
   When we finally broke for air, my girlfriend leaned in and whispered,“You know I’m really glad you can give Cassidy some happiness. She’s been crushing on you for a long time and I do really want to share you with her. But still,” Megan took a deep breath. “You know I love you more than she does, right?”
   I just blinked twice and smiled at the pretty girl who made me feel so good.“I love you, too, Megan.”
   My girlfriend beamed at me, and then she gave me another soul-searing kiss.* * *
   Between second and third periods, I was cruising down the hall to my next class when Cassidy slid up beside me, wrapping herself around my right arm and sighing happily.“Hi, boyfriend,” she giggled.
   “Hi, girlfriend,” I replied in kind.
   “I love you, Ben,” Cassidy said in a voice fraught with emotion, her eyes staring up at me and shimmering in the light.
   “I…” I paused. If she was my girlfriend, she deserved to hear the phrase, right? “I love you, too, Freckles.”
   She beamed and kissed me quickly, sighing happily.“Oh, Ben. You were wonderful yesterday. I wish we’d had time for more…” she said in a low voice.
   “Yeah, me too.”
   “We can, you know,” Cassidy husked and then pushed me into a little alcove beside the hallway. When I arched an eyebrow in confusion, she batted her pretty green eyes at me and said, “Monday’s not the only day my parents come home late. They’re never home before 6pm on ANY weekday. So whydon’t you come visit me this afternoon and we can make up for lost time.”
   Ooh… more sex… My eyes lit up as bright as Cassidy’s smile. “Great! You think Megan wants to?”
   Cassidy pouted.“Why don’t we just leave Megan out of this? After all, she could have been bringing you to my house every weekday all semester. But she wanted to keep it only Mondays because she wanted to focus on her schoolwork, right?”
   “Uh, right…” I answered in confusion.
   “Great! We’re agreed. See you this afternoon!” Cassidy kissed me again and then whirled away, hurrying off to her class.* * *
   “Aren’t you coming in?” Brooke held her door open and looked at me funny when I didn’t shut off the engine even thought I’d parallel parked on the curb.
   “Uh, no, I’m meeting up with… friends… this afternoon. I’ll see you later.”
   Brooke just shrugged and then went inside the house. I screwed up my face and wondered, why hadn’t I just told her I was going to Cassidy’s to have sex? It wasn’t like Brooke couldn’t handle the information. My little sister certainly knew about my relationships and that I fucking both girls. And yet I’d lied to her.
   Was I feeling guilty or something?* * *
   “More Ben! Gimme more! Oh, harder, Ben! Harder! Oh! Oh! Aaaaaahhh!!!”
   I was only a few seconds behind, arching my back and bellowing as I emptied my nuts into the condom. My hands were gripping her shapely hips while my pelvis was pressed tightly against her ass. And after we both came, Cassidy’s limbs gave way and she collapsed flat onto her stomach while I fell across her back.
   She started giggling almost immediately while I extracted myself out and then tossed the condom. Afterwards, I spooned in behind Cassidy and cuddled her the way I knew she loved.
   “Wow, Ben… I never thought I’d like doggy-style. Drew loved doing it, but it was all just a power trip for him. I really enjoyed that!”
   “Glad to hear it,” I wheezed. The orgasm had been great, but I couldn’t help but feel guilty over it. And when I felt guilty, I couldn’t enjoy the aftermath of a good cum. “You sure Megan won’t mind us doing this?”
   Cassidy shrugged.“I’m pretty sure. Like I said, she only wanted to meet with you on Mondays and Fridays. Tuesdays through Thursdays were open even before I came along. I’m just filling in your gaps.”
   She turned and smiled at me.“What, do I hear you complaining?”
   My eyebrows went up.“Oh, no, no.”
   “Good. Cuz I wanna fuck again tomorrow afternoon.”* * *
   For some reason, I was really tired at school on Wednesday. I hadn’t slept very well, visions of Megan and Cassidy both floating through my brain all night, and not always in a good way.
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came the sultry, sweet voice from my left. I turned just in time to see Adrienne Dennis fall into step with me, her spray-on jeans hugging her every curve while her big tits wobbled enticingly in her too-tight top.
   Despite my surprise, it took me less than a second to get my bearings.“Hey, Adrienne. What’s up?”
   “Nothing much. Mind if I walk with you?” Her smile was dazzling.
   “Please, be my guest. How’s Jake?” I asked, referring to Adrienne’s Varsity Starting Quarterback boyfriend.
   She shrugged.“He’s… he’s Jake,” she hedged. “He’s popular. He’s handsome.” Adrienne then leaned in conspiratorially and pouted, “But he’s lousy in bed.”
   My eyebrows went up and Adrienne giggled,“What about your sex life?”
   I blushed but preened,“I’ve had no complaints. My girls usually cum at least three or four times and it seems like they can’t get enough.” My eyes went wide. Did I actually just say that in public?
   “Girls?” Adrienne grinned, pretending she hadn’t heard that I was dating two girls at the same time. “As in plural?”
   I just grinned and looked forward.
   “Well, then,” Adrienne drawled while sliding her hand down my arm. “Maybe sometime you’ll show me what I’m missing out on.”
   I smiled widely at the image of Adrienne fucking-goddess Dennis lying beneath me while I drilled in and out of her hot cunt. Was she serious? No way. Not Adrienne Dennis. Could it even be possible that the most gorgeous girl in school had just made a pass at me? ME?
   I felt my ego puffing up like a balloon and I managed a cocky grin. Adrienne noticed my positive response and she smiled beautifully, showing me sparkling white teeth and she leaned in towards me invitingly.
   But then the image of Megan separating my cock from my body with a dull butter knife popped into mind. It wasn’t a matter of choosing between Megan and Cassidy versus Adrienne. It was a matter of choosing one night with Adrienne versus a lifetime with a severed dick. Besides, Adrienne was surely just teasing me. I suddenly tensed up and looked apologetic. “Uh, probably not. I’m not one to cheat on mygirlfriends.”
   “Aww, too bad…” Adrienne sighed and looked forward. “I SOOO need a good fucking.”
   My cock was iron hard and doing its level best to burst out of my jeans. I groaned as the image of Adrienne beneath me once again intruded into my consciousness.
   Cassidy would be in for quite the workout this afternoon.* * *
   On Friday, everything seemed to have been smoothed over between the girls. Since she’d gotten laid on Tuesday, Wednesday, AND Thursday, Cassidy was quite relaxed and mellowed out, willing fading a bit into the background to let Megan take center stage. After all, I told Cassidy every day that I loved her.
   Megan, not knowing WHY Cassidy had mellowed out since neither of us had told Megan about our afternoon trysts, happily resumed her position as primary girlfriend and we all got along famously.
   For one thing, we mutually decided to let Megan drive her car for this date. For a mild control freak like Megan, being in charge of the wheels instantly put her more at ease. Yeah, I had to put up with Megan drivingexactly the speed limit wherever we went. But when I complained about her sticking to 50mph on one of the big boulevards, Cassidy leaned over the back seat and tapped my shoulder.“Relax, just be glad it’s Orange County. If we were anywhere else in the country, a street this size would have a 35mph speed limit.”
   I shut up, and Megan beamed at her best friend.
   Megan’s Civic wasn’t really any bigger than my beater Corolla, but it was just a tad larger which helped the geometry of musical chairs to make everybody happy. I’d either be in the backseat with one of them, making out and letting one girl practice her blowjob skills while the other watched from up front. Or I’d be in the reclined front passenger seat getting ridden by one girl while the other played with herself in the backseat.
   Then things got really kinky when Megan wanted me to fuck her from behind over the hood of her own car, Cassidy keeping a lookout for us while I spunked into my primary girlfriend from behind.
   Megan was happy. Cassidy was happy. Hey, this might actually work out.* * *
   Unfortunately, by Monday Cassidy was itching for some extra attention and had no interest in playing second fiddle again. It wasn’t that she was going out of her way to compete with Megan or anything, but she was stressed out and wanted some loving from her boyfriend.
   We were into Finals Week, the last week before our Winter Break, and all three of us had spent the weekend studying our asses off. This was our Junior Year, and therefore one of the most important academic years for our college applications. And after a weekend of cramming, Monday brought our first wave of finals, fully six hours worth of mind-numbing exams, after which we were all on edge and looking to unwind for a bit.
   Even Brooke was edgy. It was her first experience with formal, multiple-hour finals and she couldn’t wait to get home. I’d barely brought the car to a stop before she was out the door and going into the house to find other things to occupy her time. And her door hadn’t even closed before I shifted the car into gear and drove off for Cassidy’s house, the door slamming shut from my acceleration.
   “Thank god you’re here,” Cassidy groaned once I came through the door. She was already naked and masturbating on the bed, condom in hand.
   “Come fuck me, Ben,” Megan said from right beside her, similarly naked and similarly masturbating.
   “No, me first!” Cassidy whined. “It’s MY bedroom!”
   “But I’m the first girlfriend!” Megan spat back, rubbing herself furiously while glaring at her best friend. “And I SOOO need this after today!”
   “I do, too!”
   I rolled my eyes and sighed.“If you two were THAT horny you could’ve helped each other get off.”
   Megan turned her glare to me.“Don’t even START, Ben.” At least she wasn’t glaring at Cassidy anymore.
   I shook my head and just dropped my clothes, getting naked and not willing to say anything further to reduce my chances of getting laid. After all, I was just as stressed out and horny as they were.
   “Come on, baby,” Megan pleaded. “I need you.”
   “I need you, too,” Cassidy whined. “I’ll let you in me without a condom today. I’m safe. My period’s due this Friday.”
   “Come on, Ben,” Megan said in a harsher voice. “Choose.”
   Good lord this was annoying. I was in a lose-lose situation and it pissed me off. So I shook my head and angrily spat,“No. I’m not ‘choosing’. Now both of you, stop whining or I’ll go home and ask BROOKE to take care of me.”
   “What?” Megan looked at me like I’d just turned neon green.
   “Huh?” Cassidy chimed in.
   And then before either girl could react, I jumped on top of Megan, who happened to be the closest to me, bending down and kissing her fiercely. My girlfriend happily accepted my tongue and moaned as she wrapped her arms around my head, shifting her hips to try and line up my cock.
   Meanwhile, Cassidy whimpered in frustration, but soon she gasped when I abruptly released Megan and then moved over to kiss my other girlfriend as well.
   Megan seemed to be too pleased that I kissed her first to really complain that I’d left her. And Cassidy was too wrapped up in my kiss to care at this point. And then Cassidy got even happier when pressed the head of my cock into her naked pussy and slid my way inside.
   “Ohhh… FUCK, Ben!” the redhead crooned. “I knew you’d fuck me first.”
   I sighed.“I kissed her first. I fucked you first. It doesn’t mean anything. I love you both!” I insisted even while I started pumping in and out of the horny teen.
   “But you fucked her first,” Megan whined.
   I rolled my eyes and briefly wondered if this was all worth it. I really, really liked both girls. We’d been very good friends and they were very cute. But I’d never felt the same intense passion for them as I’d felt for Dawn or even Keira. Was all this whining and complaining really worth it?
   Well, I had the BOTH of them wanting me to fuck their lights out. I supposed some competitive bitching was inevitable, and to get laid by two such pretty girls, I could live with some of the drama. And that meant finding a way to keep both Cassidy and Megan happy.
   I didn’t really want to pull out right then. Cassidy’s vaginal walls felt SO good. But I had to play some politics, so I yanked myself out of Cassidy and moved two feet to the left to forcefully spread Megan’s thighs and roughly shove myself into the brunette teenager’s pussy.
   “Ohhh… FUCK, Ben!” the little Asian girl groaned.
   Angrily, I drove myself in and out of her several times, fucking her into submission while I gripped Megan’s shoulders and lunged my hips over and again.
   “Stop IT. Both of you!” I yelled once I got that burst of rage out of my body. “I love you both. I want to make BOTH of you happy. And I’m going to fuck you BOTH within an inch of your LIVES. Got it!” With that, I pulled out and roughly flipped Megan over onto all fours, steadying her body into place before violently taking her from behind.
   Megan sighed when I re-entered her, completely acquiescent in the face of my forcefulness, letting me fuck her to my heart’s content. Meanwhile, Cassidy went silent and simply turned around onto all fours herself, waiting her turn. And after two more minutes, I pulled out and switched back to the redhead.
   This continued on for the next fifteen minutes, with me alternating which girlfriend I fucked doggy-style. Neither girl got enough sex to cum, and the frequent breaks similarly delayed my own ejaculation. That all changed when I was in Megan and pounding away, still driven with an extra dose of anger and adrenaline from the dual frustrations of finals and girlfriend annoyances. That was when Megan finally started to reach her peak, and I ground my hips, reached around to rub her clit and finally brought her to orgasm.
   “Oh, yeah… oh, yeah…” Megan sighed. “Oh! Oh! I’m cumming, Ben! You’re making me cum first!” And then her scream tore off into the night, echoing through the empty house as she bent her back and quivered beneath my body.
   It took a bit of effort to extract myself from Megan’s clenching pussy muscles, but she was still climaxing when I pulled back and moved two feet to the right and rammed my way into Cassidy’s pussy, her tightness having been loosened up by all our sex.
   “More Ben… Gimme more…” she drawled while I gripped her hips and pounded away. I had to admit, it felt REALLY good to be inside Cassidy’s pussy without a condom. It was different enough that the sensations were pushing me towards my own climax, and I felt my balls begin to tighten. But somewhere in the back of my head came Keira’s golden rule: I had to make the girl cum first.
   So without further thought, I leaned down and pressed my chest against Cassidy’s back, effectively spooning myself against her. I held my weight up with my left hand, but I used my right to reach down and palm her nicely shaped breast, rubbing the nipple and squeezing it while it’s twin continued to sway from our fucking motions.
   “Oh, Ben…” Cassidy sighed while I pressed my body tightly against her. “I love you sooo much, you know that? It feels sooo good to have you this close to me. I want to make you happy. I always want to make you happy. And I’ll let you cum inside my unprotected pussy. I love you that much. I’m not even worried about getting knocked up. Because I know you’ll always love me, right?”
   I grunted and fucked her even harder, the instinct in me reveling in the idea of flooding an unprotected womb with all my sperm.
   “Oh, Ben!” Cassidy moaned. “I’m cumming! Can you feel it? My pussy is massaging you. My womb is calling for you! Cum for me, honey! Cum in me! I’m cumming too! Cum with me!” And then she shrieked as the orgasm swept through her.
   All at once, Cassidy’s tightness was back. Her muscles clamped down and that heavenly sensation was all I needed to cum as well. But I couldn’t do it. I’d lost control once before and spurted into Cassidy’s unprotected womb, and the next week had been absolute hell for me. This time, I wasn’t going to do it.And at the last possible second, I yanked my cock out and began blasting all over Cassidy’s rosy asscheeks, bright pink after my repeated banging into them.
   “Ohhh, fuck!” I grunted as my ab muscles tensed and I spat out another jet of cum, the creamy white a stark contrast to Cassidy’s pink skin. And she kept moaning in her own orgasmic delight while I emptied the contents of my balls all over her ass.
   Having had some time to recover, Megan was quickly all over me once I finished. Before I’d even finished with the last few drops, my first girlfriend had my half-hard cock in her mouth, slurping at me while I winced and told her to go easy, I was still really sensitive. And on the other side, Cassidy simply dropped face-down on the bed, rubbing her own pussy with one hand while rubbing my cum into her asscheeks with her other hand.
   “Mmm… you finished with me,” Cassidy sighed happily, as if she’d won some victory over Megan.
   “That’s okay,” Megan popped up and stated. “Because you made me cum first.”
   Cassidy drawled,“You let yourself cum first. He was fucking us both equally.”
   “Doesn’t matter,” Megan sat back. “I know I love him more. Because today I’m going to let him do something he’s never done to either of us.”
   Cassidy turned her head.“What?”
   I looked down and arched an eyebrow.“Yeah, what?”
   Megan grinned and took another long suck at my prick, which was hardening at the thought of something new. She stayed down there, slurping on me and prolonging the anticipation while both Cassidy and I waited to hear what she had to say.
   Finally, Megan popped off and grinned.“Ben, I’m gonna let you fuck my ass.”* * *
   It took a little while for everything to sink in. Cassidy was staring at her best friend with a mixture of shock, disgust, and arousal. I was just shocked.
   “Come on, Ben,” Megan twinkled her eyes at me. “Haven’t you done this before?”
   “Uh, yeah…” I stammered. Fucking Dayna Evans’ ass had been one of my all-time sexual highlights. The physical sensations were just so different from a pussy; not necessarily better, but very different. And the mental aspect of buggering a girl’s ass was just so… naughty… “Uh, I didn’t think to bring any lube, though.”
   “Oh, that’s okay,” Megan smiled and reached over the side of the bed to her backpack and then sitting up with a small tube of KY jelly in her hands. “I did some research and came prepared. This stuff is medical grade and my parents just had it lying around the house.”
   I perked up then. Dayna had a wonderful ass, and I was certainly curious to see how different petite little Megan would be. Megan saw the grin on my face and she beckoned me to her.“Come eat me, baby. Let’s get me ready for an assfucking!”
   I was quickly into position, grabbing up the tube of KY. Megan then rolled onto her back, pulling on the backs of her knees to raise herself up and spread her thighs to the sides to give me an unimpeded view of her neatly trimmed pussy and exposed asshole.
   I’d never done it from this angle before. I’d always fucked Dayna’s ass from behind, squirting the Astroglide directly into her hole before coating myself. But I figured I could make this work as well.
   I started by squeezing a healthy dollop of KY onto my two fingers, feeling the oddly slippery sensation that was just a little different than the Astroglide had been. And then ever so gently and while watching her face, I pushed my index finger into Megan’s rectum.
   She shivered at the cold touch and tensed up; but at the same time, I ducked my head down and took a long lick at Megan’s slit. She cooed and relaxed, the familiar pleasure helping to tame her obvious nervousness.
   Meanwhile, Cassidy simply stared at us with wide eyes. Whatever competitiveness she’d been feeling earlier was now gone. She clearly had no interest in contending assholes with Megan and just watched with great interest.
   After some more licking, Megan had gone from tense nervousness to pleasurable moaning and I decided to introduce the second finger to her anus. She tensed up again when I pushed in my middle finger, but then moaned and sighed as I began to work the two digits in and out of her rectum while also bringing up my thumb to push into her pussy. And with three fingers sticking her like a bowling ball and my tongue on Megan’s clit, my girlfriend was soon lost to the pleasurable sensations.
   I committed myself to waiting for Megan to get at least one climax before I attempted to enter her. When I’d popped Megan’s cherry, I’d done so while she was in the throes of an orgasm and she’d barely felt her hymen tear away. It sounded like a good plan for the first time a girl would have her ass stretched, especially by my seven-and-a-half inch weapon.
   So wanting to take my time, I paused to relube my fingers and also coat a third finger with the KY, and then I resettled myself in a more comfortable position on my side before bending over and continuing to eat out the petite brunette while pushing all three fingers into her ass and stretching her out.
   Cassidy decided to take my new position as an opportunity, and on her own initiative she slid down to my hips, pulling my cock to her and then swallowing as much of my meat as she could.
   I tensed up when Cassidy started to blow me, and without realizing it I shoved my three fingers even deeper into Megan’s asshole, causing her to moan in pain. But she quickly moaned again in pleasure when I kept on rubbing her, and soon enough, I knew she would be ready.
   Megan decided as well.“Oh, Ben! Oh, Ben! I’m ready… I’m ready. Fuck my ass now,” she gasped in a breathy voice.
   “In a second, baby,” I soothed. “I want you to cum for me first, okay?”
   “Oh… Ben, I’m gonna cum soon. I’m gonna cum soon!” She panted.
   I was breathing hard myself by this point, both from arousal and oxygen deprivation from focusing on eating out my girlfriend. That’s when I turned to my other girlfriend.
   “Cassidy, I need you to help me,” I wheezed. “Megan needs your help too, okay?”
   Wide-eyed, Cassidy pulled off my dick and nodded. Whatever competition thing they had going, Cassidy clearly had care for her best friend etched into her eyes.“I need you to lube up my dick, that way it won’t hurt Megan so much. Can you do that?”
   The redhead nodded and then she went to squeeze the KY into her hands, actually squeezing out a lot more than I would have expected. I shrugged; you could never have too much lube. And with her hands overflowing with clear jelly, Cassidy started to coat me.
   “Oh! Oh! Oh!” Megan was bucking her hips at my face as her orgasm approached. And then with a few more licks and a suck on her clit, I finally brought her over the edge. “Yes! I’m cumming, Ben! I’m cumming!”
   That was my cue. Moving my hands to Megan’s knees, I forced her legs back to spread her wide and open up her slightly-stretched anus. And then with careful aim, I slotted the head of my lubricated dick to her gaping hole and then firmly pressed forward.
   “Aaagh!” Megan cried when she felt my mushroom head stretch her wide, the pain mingling with the ecstasy of her still-continuing orgasm, but soon the stretch was gone as my head popped in and then I was quickly burrowing all the way into my girlfriend’s ass. And before her orgasm stopped, I was already balls deep up her rectum.
   “Oh, FUCK!” Megan groaned when she came to her senses. “Is that it?”
   “It’s all the way in, baby,” I soothed.
   “Feels so full!” She moaned.
   “So I’m told,” I grinned. And then I slowly began to pull out.
   “Oh, wait, wait, wait,” Megan quickly stuttered and I came to a halt. “Lemme get used to this,” she panted.
   I waited and relaxed. Good thing too, because there was no way I would have lasted very long. If I thought Cassidy’s pussy was tight, good freakin’ lord Megan’s ass was even tighter!
   Soon, Cassidy had wiped her hands off on the towel and she was quickly beside her best friend, squeezing Megan’s left hand with both of her own. “You okay, Meg?”
   “I’m fine. I’m fine. Why’d I have to pick a boyfriend with such a big dick?” Megan whined.
   “Do you want him to stop?” Cassidy asked with concern, all of her focus on her best friend. I got the distinct impression that the fiery redhead would call everything off on her own initiative if she thought I was hurting Megan.
   “No, no. I’m getting used to it.” Megan took a deep breath, and then another. And then she looked back at me. “Okay, Ben. Go ahead.”
   Careful to make sure Megan wasn’t in any more pain than should be expected, I slowly pulled back and then reversed course before my crown popped free. Megan inhaled sharply as I began to fill her again, and I glanced down to rub her clit with my still lubricated fingers.
   “Ohhh… Ben…” Megan sighed as I settled into a steady pumping motion. She bit her lip and seemed to focus inward while I pistoned back and forth, and I felt her hips twitching when I tweaked her clitty.
   “Fuck me, baby…” Megan sighed. “Fuck my ass… It’s starting to feel good.”
   “I’m fucking you, Megan. I’m fucking your ass,” I replied in a husky voice.
   “He’s really fucking your ass!” Cassidy exclaimed in amazement. But then Megan squeezed Cassidy’s hand really hard and the redhead went back to focusing on her friend, stroking Megan’s forehead while I pumped in and out.
   It quickly became clear that while Megan wasn’t in major pain, she wasn’t getting enough pleasure to have an orgasm either. So I closed my eyes and worked on getting myself off quickly, concentrating on my own release. And once I started to feel the tingling in my balls, I opened my eyes again to witness the sight before me.
   Petite Megan was naked and spread before me, her legs hunched around my waist. Her cute tits were still perky with dusky erect nipples that stuck out a quarter inch. Her pretty pussy was pink and slightly open, filled with the moisture from her climaxes. I watched my dark prick splitting her asshole wide open, and felt a surge of“naughty” energy spurring me on. And her eyes were half-lidded as she panted and moaned, her face the picture of eroticism. “It’s feeling GOOD,” she sighed.
   Cassidy was similarly naked and focused on her friend. Her larger tits were just as firm and her paler pink nipples were just as hard and erect. Whatever misgivings Cassidy had about assholes and anal sex, she was clearly still turned on by what we were doing and by the moans coming from both me and Megan.
   And then I was there. My breathing sped up, my hips sped up, and then Megan was clutching my arms, grunting with every thrust into her ass as we all clearly knew I was about to cum.
   “Do it, baby,” Megan urged. “Fill my asshole with your spunk. Don’t you see how much I love you? I’ll deny you nothing. You can have my whole body. Cum on my face. Cum in my mouth. Cum in my cunt. And now you can cum in my ass. I want you to cum in me all the time. I love you. I love you!”
   “I love you, too,” I groaned, and then I was cumming like she asked. My hips jerked violently out of rhythm, and then I felt the wonderful relief as I started pouring out my spunk, almost as if I was pissing into her ass. My hips jerked again and I let out another LONG string of cum, and over and over again I painted Megan’s bowels with my cream.
   And as I felt the ecstatic pleasure ebb and flow away while my orgasm passed, I collapsed forward to cuddle with this wonderful girl who gave me so very much.* * *
   The assfucking called for a shower, and giggling, we hopped over to the Master Bathroom to use Cassidy’s parents’ shower, which was big enough to hold all three of us.
   Megan was quite sore, but she was enthusiastic about helping Cassidy soap me up. I also spent a lot of time soaping up both girls as well, and with enough teasing, they even spent a full five seconds rubbing soap into each other’s breasts, which started to get me hard again.
   My suggestion to get them to kiss again, however, fell on deaf ears. Megan looked annoyed with me and so I made it up to both of them by introducing both of them to shower sex. The shower had a bench in it and the girls took turns riding me. I still wasn’t willing to cum into Cassidy’s unprotected pussy, so Megan was more than happy to get a load of spunk into her pill-protected womb to add to the load I’d dropped in her ass.
   Then at last, we were all clean and it was time to go home.
   We dried off and got dressed. Despite the stress-induced competition at the beginning over who I would fuck first, we’d all mutually calmed down and gotten our pleasure. I’d thought we could now put the “who’s Ben’s favorite girlfriend” questions behind us, and that everything would be wonderful from now on.
   I was wrong.
   Just inside the front door to Cassidy’s house, I wrapped up Megan in a hug and kissed her tenderly goodbye. Megan grinned and asked, “So, did you like fucking my ass?”
   I grinned. Despite Megan’s discomfort, it HAD felt really good for me. “Yeah. You know I did.”
   “I meant it, Ben. Whenever you want, you can have all of me, any part of me.” Megan batted her eyelashes at me. Her voice was swimming with honey.
   I thought Megan was being a little melodramatic, but I appreciated the sentiment. I smiled and said,“Thank you, Megan.”
   “Just give me time, Ben,” Cassidy interjected in a worried voice, feeling a little left out. Biting her lip, she nervously stammered, “Let me get used to the idea, and then you can do it to me too.”
   I sighed.“This isn’t a competition and you don’t HAVE to do anything, Freckles.”
   “Freckles?” Megan arched an eyebrow and glared back and forth between the two of us. “How come SHE gets a cute nickname?”
   “Oh my GAWD,” I groaned in exasperation and rolled my eyes.
   “Doesn’t matter,” Megan harrumphed. And then she glanced at Cassidy with a haughty expression. “I give you all of me right now, Ben. That’s why I’ll always be thefirst girlfriend.”
   Cassidy’s eyes flared with anger for a moment, but she bit her lip and just hung back. Eventually, Megan released me and she started for the door.
   The redhead was then quick to take Megan’s place, hugging me and pecking me quickly. She had an extra twinkle in her green eyes, and with a little chuckle, she hummed, “See youtomorrow, Ben.”
   The comment itself was innocent enough, but Cassidy put enough emphasis on the word“tomorrow” that Megan picked up on the innuendo. “Tomorrow?” Megan asked.
   “Oh, didn’t you know?” Cassidy grinned and hugged me even tighter, laying her cheek against my shoulder while looking at Megan. “We’re all together on Mondays and Fridays, but Ben’s been visiting me the other weekdays so we could fuck in my bed.”
   “Wait, WHAT?!?” Megan cried in anger, her eyes flaring.
   “That’s right, little missfirst girlfriend,” Cassidy sassed. “When it was just you two, you only wanted him twice a week. So I’m just filling in the gaps. You didn’t need him Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday afternoons anyways. I might as well get the alone time with him when I need it. After all, you WERE first. So I’ve got some catching up to do.”
   “You fucking SLUT!” Megan yelled and walked up to Cassidy, whipping her hand out without further thought and then landing a vicious slap to her best friend’s cheek.
   Cassidy shrieked and released me, ready to tackle Megan. But I was quicker, getting between them and shoving them both backwards with my longer arms.“Whoa! Whoa!”
   “Let go of me you cheating BASTARD!” Megan shrieked.
   “Let me go! I get to hit her back!” Cassidy screeched while I held her back with my other arm.
   “Calm down! Calm down!” I yelled and physically held the girls back while they slapped at each other, only succeeding in hitting me.
   “Slut!” Megan yelled.
   “Bitch!” Cassidy retorted.
   “What are you DOING? You’re best friends, dammit!” I yelled. “What is GOING ON?”
   “She’s trying to STEAL YOU from me!” Megan started crying.
   “She’s trying to push me away!” Cassidy whined.
   “SIT DOWN, BOTH OF YOU!” I raged, and with that, Megan abruptly stopped fighting me and turned away, walking three feet off towards the living room. And once Megan backed off, Cassidy stopped struggling and I was able to drop my hands, wringing out my arms and trying to fix my clothes.
   Angry, Megan then turned around and glared at me.“You’ve been fucking her on the other weekdays?”
   I sighed.“Only last week.”
   “Why?”
   I shrugged.“She wanted to. I wasn’t going to turn down having sex with my girlfriend.”
   Megan pouted.“Why didn’t you tell me?”
   “Because I didn’t WANT him too,” Cassidy whined. “Every time we’re together, you’re always trying to shove me to the side like I’m a second-class citizen. Only when we’re alone can I get my BOYFRIEND to pay attention to me.”
   “But he’s MY boyfriend,” Megan complained.
   “Mine, too!” Cassidy argued. “YOU invited me!”
   “But he was my boyfriend FIRST! It’s only right that he pays more attention to me. Shouldn’t you be happy that I share him with you at all? I didn’t have to. But you’re my friend and I knew you were crushing on him. I was trying to help you out! And you BETRAY me!”
   “I’m not trying to betray you!” Cassidy tossed her hands up, the tears bubbling out of her eyes as well by now. “I just want him to love me too! It doesn’t do me any good to keep crushing on him and never get any attention! And you never saw him on the middle weekdays anyways, so what’sthe big deal?”
   “The big deal is that you two HID it from me!” Megan took two steps forward. “Come ON, Cassidy! We tell each other EVERYTHING. The very first minute I walked out of the room after giving my very first blowjob at Elaine’s party, I told you everything! The very first minute after I lost my virginity, I told you everything! And every shitty thing you did with Drew, you told me! So why did you HIDE this?”
   “Because! Because every time we’re together, you pull this ‘first’ girlfriend shit on me! You act like I’m a nuisance that’s getting in the way! I’d rather you never invited me into this fucked up relationship than keep stringing me along like this! At least then I wouldn’t have to SNEAK around to get some quality time with my boyfriend!”
   Megan exhaled and looked up at the ceiling as if looking for divine intervention. The tears were streaking down her cheeks and she moaned forlornly.“I just… I just wanted to help you, Cassidy… You were so unhappy… And I was so happy with Ben! And you were crushing on Ben! It just seemed… It didn’t seem fair that I got to be so happy and you didn’t! And Drew was being such an asshole and then you’d never been eaten out before and…” Megan exhaled. “This is SOOO fucked up.”
   “I’m not leaving Ben, Megan,” Cassidy set her jaw. “I’ll fight for him if you try to uninvite me or something. He makes me happy. We have the greatest conversations on those mid-weekdays and the sex is incredible. He loves me, too. I’m not just stepping aside because you regret hooking us up.”
   “Oh, no, I would never want to do that to you,” Megan insisted. “I love you, too, Cass. I mean, not like Ben. But you’re my best friend. I STILL want you to be my best friend!”
   “So what do we do?” Cassidy tossed her hands up and pointed at me. “This OBVIOUSLY isn’t working.”
   Megan rolled her eyes.“I don’t know… I don’t know… FUCK! Why the hell did this have to happen during Finals Week? I’ve got AP Chemistry tomorrow! I NEED that to get into Pre-Med!”
   “Ugh, don’t remind me,” Cassidy moaned. “Mr. Mikhail has been grading me really tough on U.S. History and I really need to ace the final tomorrow.”
   “Look,” Megan offered, taking a deep breath and incredibly, she calmed in two seconds flat. “We’ll work this out. But not tonight. We’ve both got to study. Let’s… let’s deal with this after finals.”
   “I can’t,” Cassidy sighed, also calming. “I’m visiting family in Florida for the holidays, remember?”
   “Oh, that’s right!” Megan slapped her forehead. “I’m going skiing at Mammoth for the week.” She took a deep breath. “When do you get back?”
   “January 2nd. You?”
   “December 30,” Megan nodded firmly. “Okay, we’ll meet on the 2nd or 3rd and figure this out. Talk EVERYTHING through.”
   I’d been ping-ponging my eyeballs back and forth between my two girlfriends, watching them go from raging mad to crying sad and to calmly rational so fast that it gave me whiplash. We were talking LOVE here, right? How could they be so calm about it? I stammered, “Wait… what?”
   Megan took a deep breath and looked over at me.“We’re postponing the decision, what’s it look like?”
   “Can you do that?” I said in disbelief, screwing my face up.
   Cassidy shrugged.“We just did.” And then she smiled and said confidently, “Megan’s been my best friend since we were little. We can do anything together.”
   Megan grinned and nodded.“Anything.”
   Cassidy piped up.“So after finals tomorrow, we’re both gonna be pretty stressed out. Why don’t you skip your whole Monday-only moratorium and come over tomorrow afternoon with us.” Cassidy smiled and blushed almost as red as her hair. “We can… unwind together. Who knows, maybe by the end of the week you’ll convince me to try anal sex.”
   “Ooh, I dunno,” Megan winced, holding her butt. “I’m not saying I won’t try it again, but not this year, for sure.”
   “Ohhh,” Cassidy’s eyes opened and she smiled knowingly. “So that whole ‘whenever you want you can have any part of me’ thing was just bullshit?”
   “Well…” Megan’s eyes twinkled. “It was alittle melodramatic.”
   “A little?” Cassidy cried in disbelief. “You put SO much pressure on me to try and keep up. If you laid it on any thicker I might’ve HAD to give Ben my ass tomorrow.”
   “I’m sorry. I’d never want to push you to do anything you weren’t ready for.” Megan sighed. “And I’m sorry for trying to make you feel like a ‘second-class’ girlfriend. I’m gonna work on that. Tomorrow, Wednesday, and Thursday, we’ll be equals. No pressure. Just good sex and good conversation, deal?”
   Cassidy grinned.“Deal.”
   And then to my absolute amazement, the two girls came together and wrapped their arms around each other in a warm hug.“Best friends?” Cassidy asked.
   “Forever,” Megan confirmed.
   Chapter 9: SisterDECEMBER 2000, WINTER BREAK
   “Mmmmmmph!” Cassidy pulled back and smiled at me. “I love you, Ben!”
   “Love you too, Freckles. See you next year.”
   “Mmmmmmph!” Megan backed her lips away from mine and grinned. “I love you, Ben!”
   “Love you too, Megan. Call me as soon as you get home.”
   “Will do.”
   And then I waved at both girls as they walked across the parking lot to their cars. I sighed. After four days straight of the most mind-blowing sex, thankfully absent of any further politicking between the girls, I was NOT looking forward to a week without either one of them. And despite the pleasantness of the past week, I knew thatsomething in our relationships would be radically changing once they both got back and we all sat down to have our“talk”.
   But that was more than a week away. For now, it was just Winter Break and after the strain of finals I was looking forward to some time to just unwind. If nothing else, I actually missed hanging out with my sisters and Eden and Emma had been whining about how I paid them no attention this past week.
   “Byeee, Bennieeee…” came the teasing female voice behind me. I turned to see Brooke miming kissing thin air with lots of tongue and I rolled my eyes. Well, SOME little sisters could be nothing but annoying.
   “Come on,” I waved her towards the parking lot. “Let’s go home.”* * *
   “So you got assigned taxi duty?” Brandi, my older sister, grinned at me. She was standing outside baggage claim at John Wayne Airport when I pulled up and then ran around to greet her with a friendly hug.
   “Yeah. Mom and Dad said if they provide the car, I’ve got to drive wherever they want, whenever they want. I live to serve.”
   “Fine. You may take that, my good man.” Brandi looked down her nose at me and pointed at her heavy suitcase.
   Chuckling, I stepped over and hoisted the thing up, dropping it into my trunk.“Just don’t expect me to hold your door open for you,” I drawled before returning to the driver’s side.
   Brandi just grinned and hopped into the passenger side. Soon we were off for the short trip back to the house.
   “When do you fly back up?” I asked as I merged with traffic for the loop back to MacArthur Blvd.
   “Not until January 21. Cal is off for a full four weeks!” Brandi bragged.
   “You suck,” I moaned. High School resumed in two weeks.
   “So how’s the love life? You still with Megan?”
   I grinned.“You wouldn’t believe me if I told you.”
   “Try me.”
   “Okay, but you have to swear not to tell Mom and Dad. They don’t know the details.”
   “Sure, whatever,” Brandi waved carelessly towards the window.
   “I’m dating both Megan and Cassidy.”
   Brandi snorted and gave me a look.“Both of them?”
   I grinned and nodded.
   “How the hell does THAT work?”
   I sighed, remembering all the drama.“Honestly, not all that well sometimes.”
   “Good grief, Ben,” Brandi chuckled while shaking her head. “Didn’t you learn ANYTHING from Dawn and Dayna?”
   I arched an eyebrow.“What do they have to do with anything?”
   Brandi adopted her big sister look of wisdom.“Two girls is dangerous, Ben. I’ve seen some guys try to pull it off at Cal. DISASTER every time. You lucked out that Dayna was willing to step back for her little sister, otherwise Dawn might not be your best friend anymore right now. I don’t know if you’re going to be so lucky with these girls.”
   “And what doyou know about dating? You seeing anybody right now?”
   Brandi smiled.“Yeah… there’s this one guy…”
   “You sleeping with him?”
   “Ben! You can’t ask me that!” My sister looked positively scandalized that her little brother would ask such a question.
   I shrugged.“Hey, I’m more than happy to tell you I’m banging two chicks at once.”
   “That’s because you’re a GUY. You actually get bonus points for that. Girls just get labeled sluts for putting out too easily.”
   “Fine, fine,” I rolled my eyes and focused on the road. Taxis always tried to cut people off on this turn getting to the 405.
   “And NO, I’m not sleeping with him,” Brandi went on to clarify. “We just started seeing each other… but… I’m not that kind of girl. I’m not sure about him just yet, and I don’t want to get a reputation. It’s bad enough being associated with Dayna, Miss I’m-at-college-and-I-want-to-party-all-the-time. She’s already on her fourth boyfriend in just one semester.”
   “Fair enough.” I nodded.
   It was more than a minute later when Brandi said softly,“Still… it would’ve been really nice to get laid.”* * *
   Our parents were suitably happy to see Brandi when we arrived, hugging her and talking about how they were oh-so-proud of their“college girl”. Both parents then promptly sat Brandi down and grilled her for over an hour about all the changes made to the campus of their old alma mater.
   Brandi moaned about the football team going 3–8 and losing the Big Game against Stanford 36–30, of which Mom and Dad were suitably depressed as well.
   Sometime around the 45-minute mark, I wandered in and Brandi looked at me pleadingly to rescue her from our parents. I just grinned and kept walking, being the bastard of a little brother that I was.
   Late that night, I finished up the video game I hadn’t played in over a week. The rest of the house was quiet since it was close to midnight, and yawning I decided to finally take a shower and go to sleep.
   Even thought I’d gotten laid more times than I could count in the past several days, I was still horny and terribly missing my girlfriends on this first Friday without either one of them. I knew I’d be in for quite the jerk-off session in the shower to relax myself before I went to sleep.
   I was used to being the only one in the house still awake at this hour. And so it was without further thought that I crossed the hallway wearing nothing but a towel around my waist and went to open the bathroom door.
   Only the knob wouldn’t twist. It was locked from the inside and in confusion I jiggled the knob a few more times, wondering who the hell was in the bathroom at this hour. And as I stared dumbly at uncooperative knob, the door suddenly popped open to reveal my older sister standing there with wet hair and her own towel wrapped around her torso, tucked between her cleavage and just barely falling below her crotch. “Ben?”
   “Oh, uh, sorry… I didn’t realize anyone else was still awake.”
   Brandi smiled at me.“College hours. I can’t sleep before midnight anymore.” And then her smile turned into a grin as she realized my eyes were roving hungrily up and down her body, trying to glimpse a little more flesh. I hadn’t forgotten her occasional naked streaking across the hallway from the past summer.
   “Hmph, same old Ben,” Brandi chuckled. “It’s too bad you were such a bastard before, not rescuing me from Mom and Dad when I needed you. If you had, I might’ve rewarded you tonight.”
   My jaw dropped and with that, Brandi strode out of the bathroom and calmly sashayed over to her bedroom. I turned and followed her with my eyes, and just before she closed the door, she turned her head sideways to make sure I was looking and then dropped the towel to the floor, flashing me a wonderful view of her naked back and exquisitely tight ass.
   And then the door closed and she was gone.
   I blinked several more times before finally stepping into the bathroom and turning the shower on. Now I had one more image in my head to jerk off to.* * *
   Saturday was the first full day of winter break, so I spent most of it asleep.
   But once I did wake up, I found that everyone was splitting off in their own directions. Now that school was out, all us kids were eager to hang out with our friends in a purely social situation. Brandi had arranged to meet up with her old High School friends, I was playing basketball with Kenny, Daniel, and the boys; and the younger siblings were heading to the mall. Even Eden and Emma were going off to visit friends.
   As the two kids with driver’s licenses, Brandi and I were assigned to drop everyone off and arrange pickups before heading our separate ways. So my sister and I sat down and worked out all the scheduling while also commiserating over how much of a drag it was to have to chauffer the rugrats. And when my big sis lightly punched me in the arm as we parted, I couldn’t help but realize… she was FINALLY treating me as an equal.
   Maybe it was because I was taller and heavier than her. Maybe it was simply because I had my own license. But I certainly remembered all the“big sister” condescension I used to get from her. In the old days, when Brandi and I were assigned to complete some chore together, she immediately took charge, made all the decisions, and then bossed me like an angry tyrant. But today, we worked out the schedule together and when Brandi askedme to drive clear across town to pick up the twins because she wanted to stay out an extra half-hour, I told her “no” and she simply shrugged and caved. The old Brandi would never have compromised.
   Something had happened while she was away at college. I became the lead kid in the family, riding herd on my younger siblings. And Brandi had gone from the social elite of being a High School Senior in town to just another anonymous freshman at a big University with over 30,000 students. The way we interacted with people had simply changed. I’d grown a spine and she’d picked up some temperance.
   It was a whole new relationship for the two of us.* * *
   Later on Saturday night, I found my hands getting a little twitchy as I played video games, and the twitches weren’t coming from too much button mashing. I was horny. Hey, I was sixteen. I was ALWAYS horny.
   The twins had fallen asleep long ago and Brooke had gone to bed around 11pm. It was just after midnight now, and I turned the volume down on the TV so that I could hear the upstairs shower running. There could only be one person up there, and with memories of the previous night and Brandi’s summer teasing, I found myself yearning to be in that hallway when she emerged.
   Abruptly, the shower turned off and the sound of water rushing through the pipes faded away. Without a second thought, I turned off the video game and hustled up to my bedroom to quickly strip down and wrap a towel around my waist. I figured my own need to take a shower would be my only reasonable excuse for why I was waiting in the hallway.
   Sure enough, two minutes after I got myself into position, the door popped open and Brandi stepped out with her towel wrapped around her torso, coming to a sudden halt in surprise when she saw me waiting.
   Trying to keep my eyes from wandering, I stammered,“Uh, just waiting for my turn.” It was a line I’d mentally rehearsed three times already, and I winced as even I heard my weakly forced delivery.
   “Riiight,” Brandi drawled, clearly not buying my excuse. Then an impish smirk crossed her face and she quickly looked both ways down the hallway, making sure that all doors were closed. And in a soft voice, her eyelids half-closed as she murmured, “You’re looking for another free peek.”
   I gulped and blushed, caught red-handed. The tent forming in my towel only added to my embarrassment.
   When my eyes went back up, I saw that Brandi was looking a little flushed herself. Her dark eyes were stormy as she glanced over my body, ogling me just as much as I wanted to do to her. Her tongue darted out and crossed her upper-lip, a gesture that I remembered from Keira as one of the signs of arousal. And my heart started racing faster as I contemplated what that could mean.
   Without another word, Brandi then stepped forward and grabbed my hand. She glanced around the hallway again to make sure the coast was clear, and then hurriedly she dragged me into her bedroom and shut the door.
   Now my heart waspounding and I was breathing hard with anticipation and anxiety. I was in my sister’sbedroom. Alone. Wearing nothing but atowel. Brandi turned to face me and in a husky voice, she said,“Here’s the deal: you show me yours, I’ll show you mine.”
   My eyebrows went up, but Brandi’s gaze was entirely on my crotch, where the towel was being pushed out rather obscenely. “C’mon, Ben,” she added when I didn’t immediately respond. “Nothing we both haven’t seen before.”
   In a husky voice of my own, I nodded and said,“Okay,” and my hands went to the fold that was holding my towel around my waist.
   Brandi picked her gaze up to my eyes in alarm, her chest rising as she was breathing hard as well.“But just to look. We’re not touching or anything, got it?”
   “No problem.” And with a flick of my wrist, my towel dropped to the floor. Semi-consciously, I thrust out my pecs and tightened my abs, which had the side-effect of making my hard erection bob just a bit.
   Biting her lip nervously while staring straight at my dick, Brandi flicked her wrist between her breasts and then her own towel fell, revealing those round tits that sat high on her chest, capped by small, dark nipples. Her tummy was toned and lightly muscled, and my gaze dropped all the way down to her shaven pussy and lithe legs. I think my dick grew an extra eighth of an inch.
   I’m not sure how long we stood there and stared at each other. I did know that the longer I stared, the closer I wanted to get. Hell with closer, I wanted to get my dick INSIDE of her. Sister or not, Brandi was a babe.
   But the instant my resolve crumbled and I took half a step forward, Brandi turned away and looked at the floor. Her whole body was shuddering and she said in a thready voice,“Go take your shower, Ben.”
   For a few seconds, there were no sounds but that of both of us breathing hard. Then with a sharp inhalation on my part, I grabbed my towel and left the room.
   When I jerked off in the shower that night, Brandi was the only girl in my mind.* * *
   Sunday was calm enough. It was Christmas Eve and by family tradition, we all stayed home to hang out together.
   We found some movies on cable and I soon found myself on the big couch, surrounded by little sisters as both Eden and Emma decided to use me as a backrest. Brooke took the opportunity to stretch out on the wing chair, draping her legs over the left armrest. My parents were on the loveseat together.
   Sometime around 2pm, Brandi awoke and meandered in during the movie with a steaming cup of coffee. Without a word, she squished Emma closer to my side and then settled into the vacant spot. When I glanced at her, she just smiled casually and without any tension between us. It was as if our little moment last night didn’t matter.
   I smiled back and looked around at my siblings and parents, all relaxing and enjoying a movie together. It was a pleasant little 21st century family moment.
   Afterwards we played some board games and generally killed time while waiting for midnight. Family tradition said that we could all open one present at 12:01am on Christmas Day, and then we had to let our parents sleep in until 10am in the morning. Mom and Dad said it was because Brandi and I had gotten into the habit of waking them up at 5am when we were little, arguing that since it was already Christmas morning we could open our presents.
   Eden and Emma actually dropped off to sleep for a couple hours, but we woke them long enough for them to open up some books they’d been dying to read. I got a new game for my Playstation and then we all hit the sack.
   Unfortunately, neither Brandi nor I had the energy nor drive for another show-me-yours encounter.* * *
   Christmas turned out to be a flurry of activity, at least as far as the phone lines were concerned. The parents made various calls to friends and family to wish them Merry Christmas. And I got surprise calls from both Megan and Cassidy, who reminded me that they loved me along with their Christmas greetings. I was pleasantly surprised. It never would have occurred to me to try calling them.
   Just after lunch, Keira McNeil walked over with a thank you note written on the back of a 5”x7” photograph of her newly remodeled home, and I got to chat with her for a minute where she told me how things were going well with Stuart and that she was happy I seemed to be enjoying good relationships with girls my own age.
   And then to my everlasting joy and surprise, Dawn Evans also called me, and we spent an hour catching up with each other. She’d broken up with Mark and wasn’t currently seeing anyone. She professed how much she missed me and couldn’t wait for the summer. I missed my friend as well and in my taciturn teenaged male way, I think I managed to communicate that.
   Brandi also got calls from friends, and in the evening, she got one particular call for which she got really hushed and ran into her bedroom. And when Brooke and I noticed how secretive our older sister had gotten, we got evil grins on our faces and I gestured for her to come into my room.
   Brooke and I both settled onto my bed, and with a finger over my lips to remind her to stay quiet, I reached over and tapped the speaker button on my phone. Quietly, we then eavesdropped on Brandi’s conversation.
   It started with Brandi giggling.“You’re so bad!”
   “Can’t help it, Brandi,” came back the male voice. “You’re so hot I can’t help myself.”
   “Right now, Brian? You’re jerking off right now?”
   “Yeah… I can’t get your last kiss out of my mind. You smelled so good; and all I could do was imagine running my hands all over your naked body.”
   “Mmm…” Brandi moaned.
   “Can I give you a massage when you get back? I won’t try to fuck you, I promise. I just want to massage you, touch your muscles. I’ll rub this hot oil all over your body, stroking your soft skin and rubbing you… everywhere.”
   “Everywhere?” Brandi’s voice picked up in pitch.
   “Everywhere. I’ll rub your back. I’ll massage your arms. I’ll rub your legs, and even firmly press my palms into your firm buttcheeks… Ohhh, Brandi, I’m so hard for you. And when you’re good and relaxed, I’ll move my hands between your legs. I’ve very good with my hands, Brandi.”
   “Really?” Brandi’s voice caught as she gasped.
   “Very good…” he said in a low voice.
   I started to get alarmed with where the conversation was going, and I flicked my gaze to 14-year-old Brooke. This was probably a little too risqué for the younger girl and I moved my hand over to turn off the speakerphone.
   But Brooke darted her hand to my wrist and stopped me, shaking her head while looking at me with wide eyes. I wanted to hear the rest myself, so I quietly nodded and pulled my hand back.
   “What then, Brian?”
   “After I make you cum, I’ll slowly turn you over onto your back. And then I’ll spend an hour massaging your front. I won’t even try to get you off, just stroking, rubbing, massaging everywhere. I’ll oil up your wonderful breasts, just rubbing, nothing sexual. I’ll massage your legs and your belly and by the time I’m done with you, you’ll be a limp, unconscious, puddle of flesh, just floating on a cloud of happiness.”
   “Ohhh… Brian… You’re going to make me cum just talking to you.”
   “Are you playing with yourself, Brandi?”
   “Yes! Ohhh…” my sister moaned.
   “You’re so sexy. I didn’t tell you that enough when we went out. I couldn’t believe I was dating a stone fox with such a hot body! You’re unbelievably sexy, Brandi.”
   “Mmm… tell me more…”
   “I love your ass. You have the most dynamite ass I’ve ever seen. I just want to stick my face in between your cheeks and lick you and suck you and squeeze you until you’re cumming all over my face.”
   “Ohhh… Brian!”
   “Cum for me, baby. I wish I could be there to see it. I wish we could have done this in person. But I’ll see you happy any way I can. Cum for me! Let me hear it! I’m gonna cum too! I’m gonna spurt, Brandi!”
   “Oh! Oh! OHHH!!!” Brandi gasped into the phone, clearly in the throes of her orgasm. The sound was soon met by male grunting, and Brandi seemed to moan even louder as she heard Brian’s noises.
   I glanced over to Brooke and found that my little sister had a hand in her own shorts and she was wincing as if in pain, biting down on her lip to prevent herself from moaning out and giving us away. But even when she realized I was staring at her, she didn’t stop frigging herself and in fact, her pace seemed to speed up.
   I recognized the look on Brooke’s face. She looked just like Megan did right before she came. And with quick thinking, I reached over and stabbed the speaker button, cutting off the sound of Brandi’s and Brian’s orgasms.
   I was just in time, Brooke couldn’t hold back her own moan as she stiffened up and came, her eyes watering as she stared back at me and then she gasped for oxygen as the first contraction left her body. Unable to hold herself upright anymore, my little sister tilted over and collapsed against my side, burying her face against mychest while I instinctively wrapped my arm around her back to hold her up. And in my arms, Brooke shuddered and whimpered as her orgasm swept through her body.
   When she was done, Brooke’s eyes went wide open and she jerked herself away from me in embarrassment. But I just smiled and held my finger to my lips to remind her to keep quiet. Any louder noises and Brandi might realize we were just in the next bedroom.
   After another minute, Brooke realized I wasn’t upset with her for masturbating. So she cuddled herself against me while she came down from her sexual high. And still curious about Brandi’s phone sex, I reached over and hit the speakerphone again.
   “I’m still so horny, Brian,” Brandi moaned. “I need your cock… right now. Gawd what I wouldn’t give to get fucked right now!”
   “I wish I was there, baby. I’ll see you as soon as you fly back. Maybe I’ll ride with Dayna and meet you at the airport.”
   “You do that Brian, and you’re gonna get very lucky that night.”
   “Ohhh, I can’t wait, Brandi.”
   “Me, neither. I’m so glad you called. Merry Christmas, Brian.”
   “Merry Christmas.”* * *
   Tuesday was Eden and Emma’s 11th birthday. Even though it was December 26th, Mom called them her Christmas presents since she actually started labor late on Christmas night. I still had a vague memory of being five-and-a-half and wondering what the heck was going on when Mom stood up in the middle of Christmas dinner andstarted yelling that her water broke.
   Unfortunately for the twins, this meant they only got one set of presents every year. Fortunately for the twins, being the babies of the family meant that mom and dad more than compensated with additional gifts and toys sprinkled throughout the year.
   Still, given a choice, I’m sure the girls would have preferred a birthday farther removed from such a major holiday. For one, all the prime birthday spots like roller skating rinks, miniature golf centers, and bowling alleys were always packed with kids on Winter Break. But more importantly, a lot of families took vacation at this time of year and only about half their friends were ever available to attend their birthday parties.
   I could only imagine how crazy things would have gotten if all their friends actually came to a party. Eden and Emma were quite popular and they still had dozens of other 10 and 11-year-olds coming to this year’s birthday party the day after Christmas.
   Some brought brand new toys with them. Some were showing off new clothing they’d just received. And all of them had bundles of extra energy from the holiday season.
   And guess who had to play chaperone for a few dozen 10/11-year-olds who believed they were too old to be supervised?
   To be fair, it WAS all three older siblings who had responsibility. We were at a bowling alley and Brandi was over by lane 5 trying to keep the kids from bowling four balls at the same time. Brooke was at lane 8 trying to impose her will over kids who were only three years younger than her and unwilling to accept her authority. And my mom was fussing over a young girl who’d dropped a 20-pound ball on her toe and was bawling her eyes out.
   Me? I lucked out and the kids I was watching over were pretty mellow. So I left them to their own devices for a bit while I marched over to Brooke’s crew and calmed them down, the young girls more willing to accept the authority of a 5’10”+ male.
   Then I dropped by Brandi’s group and managed to convince her charges to quit screwing around because MY group was doing a better job bowling and the highest scores would get to be first in line at the pizza lunch. The youngsters immediately focused on bowling one at a time.
   A minute later, Brandi was standing with me behind the lanes while we looked over her kids.“Thanks, Ben. You know, I remember when you were just another little twerp like them.”
   I just shrugged.
   “You’ve grown up into a fine young man, Ben. Megan and Cassidy are lucky girls.” Brandi patted my shoulder.
   I just smiled and then belatedly realized that Brandi still had her hand on my shoulder. She was a few inches shorter than me, and when I turned to look, I found that she was staring straight at my bicep as she experimentally squeezed it, feeling the dense musculature there. I wasn’t the kind of guy who hit the gym or anything, but I’d always had a good metabolism and I got a lot of exercise, both from common activities like basketball and from my recent sexual escapades.
   Not quite sure how to react, I said nothing nor moved to stop her. Brandi was still holding my arm with one hand when she brought up her other hand to gently touch my chest, finding it as firm as my arm had been. Ever so gently, she kept trying to squeeze me while her breathing got rougher. And then I saw that subconscious reflex as her tongue came out and snaked across her upper lip.
   “Hey Brandi!” one of the kids called. And like a switch had been thrown, Brandi abruptly jerked her hands away from me and blinked several times as if not understanding what she’d been doing.
   Without another word, she turned and stepped back down to the lane.* * *
   That night, I’d absorbed myself in one of my new video games and completely lost track of time. It was after midnight when I turned the Playstation off and went upstairs, going through my usual routine of brushing my teeth and taking a shower. The coast was clear and the lights were out, so I assumed that everyone had gone to sleep.
   I dried off in the bathroom and then wrapped my damp towel around my waist for the return trip to my bedroom. And then out of habit, I walked in the door and closed it behind me, dropping my towel to the floor while I headed to my dresser that had all my underwear and my pajama pants.
   That’s when I saw that my room wasn’t empty. Brandi was reclining on my bed, wearing just a thin robe over her panties, and with no bra. Her eyes were locked onto my naked midsection while she dug her fingers inside her panties and rubbed herself.
   “Jeez! Brandi!” I sputtered in surprise and immediately ducked to grab my towel and pull it to cover me.
   “No, don’t!” she quickly pleaded, motioning for me not to cover up. And then as I stared in disbelief at her, Brandi parted her robe to the sides to reveal her naked breasts.
   Per usual, I’d jerked myself off in the shower to a medley of fantasies that ranged from Dawn to Dayna and to my current girlfriends. I’d managed to avoid the Brandi fantasies this time, but now that I was seeing my sister half-naked on my bed, I was certain she’d be in my fantasy tomorrow.
   “Come here, Ben.”
   Half-nervous and half-excited, my desire to see her tits from closer up outweighed my embarrassment at my own nakedness, so I walked up next to the bed while Brandi stared hungrily at my cock, which had begun to rise while I ogled my older sister’s tits.
   “I just had to see it again,” Brandi breathed. “Dayna was right. You have abeautiful dick.”
   “Uh, thanks,” I stammered. “Uh, you’ve got really nice tits,” I replied lamely.
   Still frigging her clit, Brandi was breathing hard as she let her eyes rove around my naked body in little visual excursions that always returned back to my erect prick. She sighed and frowned,“I am such an idiot. I should have fucked Brian before I left. Then I wouldn’t have this anticipation all Winter Break and I wouldn’t be so fucking horny!”
   I didn’t know how to respond to that so I didn’t say anything. I was too mesmerized looking at the lustful expression on Brandi’s face anyways. She had the same half-torn/half-aroused look I’d first seen in that clearing at camp, where the Evans sisters effectively brought Brandi and me to a foursome on our last day. She and I had crossed a line that day. I wasn’t sure if it was about to happen again.
   “You’re so lucky, Ben,” Brandi moaned forlornly. “Megan’s coming home on Saturday and Cassidy next Tuesday. I’ve got to wait three more weeks to see Brian.”
   “Uh, sorry…” I tried to say in sympathy.
   “Can I touch it?” For the first time, Brandi’s gaze swiveled up to my eyes. She had a look of such desperate pleading that all I could do was nod affirmatively.
   “Oh, shit!” I groaned when I felt my older sister’s cool hand wrap around my shaft. She continued frigging herself with her right hand while her left turned and circled my hot column of manflesh, and I groaned again when she tightened her grip and pumped it once.
   “Brandi?” I said questioningly. What were we doing? Where were we going with this? Wasn’t this wrong?
   “I’m going to put it in my mouth,” she husked. “Just one suck. Nothing I haven’t done before.”
   I groaned hearing her words.“I was wondering if you remembered that,” I grunted, thinking back to the aforementioned foursome at camp when Brandi briefly put her mouth around me and slurped up the mingled taste of mine and Dawn’s orgasms. From the way Brandi never made mention of it again, I’d begun to think she’d blocked it from memory.
   “You never forget the first time you suck your brother’s dick,” Brandi said as if in a trance, staring straight at my cock. And then she simply leaned forward and took me into her mouth. “Mmm…”
   I felt my knees buckle as the mere concept of my older sister sucking on my dick completely overwhelmed me. Still naked, I turned and let myself flop backwards onto my own mattress rather than awkwardly sink to the floor. And Brandi’s mouth went with me, humming and sucking and licking the big vein running underneath my shaft while I lay back and stretched out. And from the vibrations of her body, I assumed she was still masturbating herself.
   This was sooo naughty. But as great as it felt, I had one last moral thread tying me to my life. Tentatively, even while I was breathing hard, I said,“Brandi, I think you said ‘just one suck’.”
   But she ignored me. Actually, she didn’t ignore me, she actively shut me up by reaching out with one finger and pressing it to my lips, telling me to keep still and keep quiet with one gesture. And then my sister truly began to give me a blowjob.
   Her finger stayed on my lips for a while, controlling my whimpers even though I wanted to shout to the world how great a cocksucker my older sister was. But after a while, she moved to bring both hands into play, jacking me firmly while her mouth danced around my head, and I began to softly moan me encouragement.“So good, Brandi. You’re so good. Ugh, my cock is so sensitive; it’s such a good feeling. You’re so good, sis. Suck me. Suck me.”
   I dared not get any louder. After all, even though the house was sleeping, my parents were just down the hall and Brooke even shared a wall with me. The last thing I wanted was for one of our family members to walk in and find my older sister giving me the blowjob of a lifetime.
   And if they walked in within the next thirty seconds, they’d see me spunking my load into my own sister’s mouth. And for some reason, I REALLY didn’t want that. Seeing me naked was semi-ordinary, if not expected in a household with mixed-sex siblings. Touching my dick could be considered taboo experimentation. A quick suck wasn’t THAT much further.
   But swallowing my jizz? Accepting my sperm into her body, in any way? Somehow, I thought that was crossing the line.
   “Oh, Brandi! I’m gonna cum! I’m gonna cum! Pull off! Pull off” I pleaded. But instead of pulling back, my older sister started sucking even harder.
   “Ohmigod, you can’t swallow it. Let me cum on your face. Let me cum on your tits. Please!”
   It was no use. It was as if my desperate plea for her not to swallow my cum just made her want to swallow it that much more. It was wrong. It was naughty…
   … It was in her mouth. I’d still been quietly pleading with her not to swallow it when my orgasm hit, sending out the first spurt of spunk onto my sister’s tongue. And before I could fire a second shot, she’d already gulped my wad down. It was too late.
   “Ohhh… Brandi…” I groaned, giving up and letting my head fall back against the mattress.
   With one hand, she coaxed out every drop of cum, jacking up with every blast to maximize the load that splattered against the back of her mouth. And after the first three of four bursts, she started hoovering me in desperate search for more… and more… and more… until there was nothing left to give.
   Smacking her lips, Brandi picked her head up and sighed with deep satisfaction. I saw her left hand was still holding my deflating prick, but she brought her right hand up from her own panties, coated in her own slimy fluids. And daintily, my sister licked her own fingers clean.
   “I’ve got your sperm in my belly, Ben…” Brandi sighed, her eyes sizzling. “Isn’t that so… wrong…”
   I groaned and winced.“So wrong…”
   “And yet,” my older sister smiled. “So right.”* * *
   I felt something tickle my balls, and with a start, I jerked awake.
   “Mmph!” somebody groaned and as I sat up I realized I’d just shoved my dick an inch into someone’s throat. I looked down and the black hair with blonde streaks was a dead giveaway: it was Brandi. She gagged slightly and then popped off to catch her breath.
   “Brandi!” I hissed. “What are you doing?”
   She grinned and hovered over my erection.“Nothing I haven’t done before.” And with that, she leaned over and put a finger over my lips to silence me.
   This time, when she swallowed my cock, all I could do was surrender to the pleasure. Two minutes later, we both got what we wanted as I geysered my morning load into my sister’s belly.
   She tucked me back into my shorts and I tugged on her shoulder to pull her up to me. We lay side-by-side as I wrapped up Brandi’s smaller body in my arms, hugging her tightly. She’d brought me so much pleasure and I was feeling thankful, and gently I tilted her head back so that I could press my lips to hers.
   But at the last moment, Brandi turned her head away.“Ben, we can’t do that.”
   “What?”
   “You’re my brother. You can’t kiss me.”
   “Can’t kiss you?” I groaned in disbelief. “You can swallow my cum but I can’t kiss you? That’s where you draw the line?”
   Brandi sighed and turned back to face me, then leaned up and pecked my forehead in a more traditional big sister kiss.“A blowjob is just about sex. I’m really, really horny and I’m craving cock. If I didn’t have you, I might run out and end up screwing some stranger. I couldn’t do that to Brian. I NEED you, Ben.”
   She searched my eyes, looking for understanding. But I didn’t get it just yet.
   Brandi exhaled and canted her head.“A kiss is about love and affection. I can’t do that with you, Ben, okay? Blowing you is just physical, I can live with that. Kissing would be more than physical, okay? Please?”
   I didn’t understand, but I could obey. “Sure.” I sighed. “Can I at least hug you?”
   Brandi grinned and opened her arms wider.“C’mere little brother.”* * *
   Other than the thoroughly out-of-the-ordinary morning, Wednesday turned out to be pretty ordinary. I met up with some friends, hung out, and played some b-ball. I played with my sisters, and I video gamed until it was time to go to bed.
   I was more careful when I entered my bedroom after my shower, but this time there was no Brandi in my bed. I found that I was actually disappointed, but I figured it was for the best.
   After all, in just three more days, Megan would be coming home and I could get all the sex I wanted… without the guilt.* * *
   I felt something tickle my balls, and with a start, I jerked awake.
   “Mmph!” This time Brandi was better prepared, so she didn’t gag when my cock briefly entered her throat.
   In fact, once I got my bearings and realized my sister was giving me a wake-up blowjob again, she amazed me by descending all the way down my seven-and-a-half inch monster until her lips were around my base, completely deep-throating me.
   I didn’t last much longer than that.
   Afterwards, I offered to return the favor. After all, it didn’t seem right that I got the orgasms and she did all the work. But Brandi shook her head in the negative. This way, she was in complete control. This way, we didn’t risk crossing any of her self-made boundaries. And since she was frigging herself while she blew me, she got her own pleasure as well.
   “It’s tempting, Ben. But I just don’t trust myself, okay?”
   “Okay,” I shrugged. “Just offering, that’s all.”
   Brandi smiled but also bit her lip nervously.“Thanks anyways.”* * *
   Friday, Brandi woke me up with a blowjob again. I’d been expecting it. But once I spurted down her throat, Brandi turned her eyes up to me with a soft plea.
   “Ben, I need a favor,” she said in a slightly frazzled voice. My sister’s jaw quivered and it looked like she couldn’t keep her fingers still.
   “Sure, anything.”
   “I want you to eat me. I know I said we would ONLY do blowjobs, but I need to cum. I really,really need to have a big orgasm. I’m going stir crazy here and my fingers just aren’t cutting it anymore.”
   Nervous, I glanced to the door.“The longer we’re in here the more likely we’ll get caught.”
   Brandi shook her head.“Mom and Dad are at work. I dropped off the twins at a friend’s house. And Brooke walked around the block to Jennifer Vo’s place. We’re all alone.”
   Mollified, I nodded and Brandi was quick to drop her panties to the floor while still cinching her thin robe around her otherwise nude body. Her entire body was trembling.“I’m trusting you, Ben. Just one oral orgasm. I’m not sure I can control myself. You’re my brother. We CAN’T have sex.”
   “Sure.” I waved to the bed. “You want to climb on top or do you want to lie down?”
   Almost twitching, Brandi shook her head in the negative.“No bed. Too tempting.” And then frantically she looked around, finally spotting my desk. “There. I’ll sit on the desk and you can sit on the chair between my legs. Okay?”
   “Anything you want.” I was in quite the mellow mood since I’d just had a glorious orgasm. Brandi, on the other hand, was twitching more than a crack-addict going through withdrawal. On shaky legs, she staggered over to the desk and managed on the second try to slide her butt onto it. I dismounted the bed and pulled out my desk chair, settling into it while I surveyed the situation.
   Brandi was trembling and licking her lips in anticipation. She spread her legs to the sides and as I rolled the chair in, I hooked her feet over my shoulders.
   “Oh, this is so wrong…” she sighed, but when I hesitated to dive in, she grabbed my head and forced it down to her crotch. Immediately I started licking and Brandi moaned in complete arousal.
   Just like all the others, Brandi’s taste was similar but different. I’d kind of been expecting her flavor to be radically dissimilar from my other lovers. After all, there was supposed to be this great divide between “family” females and “other” females. You know, you can do sexual stuff with “other” but not with “family”. But from right here, between her legs and with my tongue wrapped around her clit, Brandi tasted just like any other girl. It wasn’t like she had any identifying flavor that labeled her as “sister”.
   And she certainly reacted like all the other girls. Keira and Dawn had taught me well, and I’d honed my pussy-eating skills on Dayna, Megan, and Cassidy. And Brandi was so turned on that she got to her first orgasm really, really quickly.
   It was a good one, the whole nine yards with her thighs tightening around my ears and her ass bucking off the desk surface when it first hit her, cramming her crotch into my face while she wailed and dumped a load of honey onto my face.
   That was it. The deal was one good oral orgasm and then we’d stop. She was my sister and I was her brother and we couldn’t risk crossing any further boundaries. Oral sex was just about pleasure, something we could both live with.
   But when I went to pull my head away, Brandi clamped her thighs around my head to trap me and then pressed down on my head.“Again!”
   “Mmph?” I mumbled, questioning this deviation from the plan.
   “Please, Ben? Please?” Brandi still sounded so desperate and I hated to hear the pain in her voice. I wanted to comfort my sister, to make her feel better, and right now that meant continuing my oral attention on her. One more orgasm wouldn’t hurt, right?
   “Please…” she moaned, and when my tongue started working along her slit again, she sighed happily. “Yesss…”
   In the buildup to her first orgasm, Brandi was relatively silent, just grunting and gasping while her body writhed on top of my desk. This time, Brandi was much more vocal.“Oh, Ben! Eat me! Fucking eat me! Ohhh, you’re so good, little brother! Fuck! My little brother is eating me! It’s sowrong!”
   Her words did not go unnoticed by me. The sound of a woman in heat is a turn-on to begin with. The concept of my older sister Brandi making those sounds was even more erotic. And the sheer naughtiness of the demands for her little brother to eat her had my blood pumping.
   “So good, Ben! Oooh, I LOVE your finger in my cunt! More! Another finger! Deeper! Harder!”
   I’d stayed soft the entire time I brought Brandi to her first orgasm. My recent cum plus the workmanlike approach I brought to getting her off had kept my arousal at bay. But now, hearing my sister pleading for me to shove an extra finger into her cunt, my erection was coming right back up for another round.
   Brandi’s hips jerked and she screamed, “Oh, Ben! I’m cumming! I’m cumming on your tongue! I’m cumming on my little brother’s tongue!”
   I rode out her climax and gripped her thighs with my off-hand, rhythmically plunging three fingers into my sister with my other hand. And this time, when Brandi whimpered“Again!” I didn’t hesitate.
   I had a beautiful babe rubbing her bare-shaven pussy against my face and demanding pleasure from me. She let her robe fall to the sides and she was palming her firm tits in her hands, tweaking her nipples and gasping with pleasure. There was no way I was going to stop.
   So I ate her out again. This time, I rotated my hand and shoved my female honey-coated middle finger into Brandi’s ass, causing her to squeal in delight. My thumb curled back up and prodded her clit from below, occasionally sliding into my sister’s vaginal channel. And my tongue was going nuts on her love button from above. Her butt had slid forward enough off the desk so that she was practically suspended on my hand, only the back of her hips still supporting her weight while I rhythmically thrust my digits into both of her nether holes.
   “Ben! Suck my tits! Suck my tits!” she gasped. And quickly I was out of my chair, leaning over her while I took a swollen nipple into my mouth.
   Animalistically, I growled as I nursed her breasts, switching from the left to the right and giving her nipple a fresh tongue-lashing while I kept pumping her pussy and asshole with my right hand. My sister thrashed on top of the desk, perpetually threatening to fall off while frantically clutching my shoulders. And when Brandi grabbed my head with both hands, I didn’t resist as she pulled my face to hers and planted a wet, hot kiss on my lips.
   So good. So FUCKING good. Brandi actually tasted like strawberries, even though she wasn’t wearing any lipstick or lip gloss. My tongue darted into her mouth and she moaned as I french kissed her, my left hand coming up to palm her tit while she kept bucking her crotch against my fingers.
   She was getting close to her third climax. I could feel the puffs of air bursting through her nostrils as she heavily exhaled. I could hear her erotic moans as she whimpered in the approach to orgasm. And I felt the tightening of her hands around my head as her body tensed in preparation.
   Me? I was sooo horny and getting almost no relief. I needed to feel… SOMETHING. Needed SOME pleasure. And with a groan of need, I grabbed Brandi’s right hand with my left hand, yanking it down and moving her wrist until she could take my rock hard erection into her right hand. She knew what to do and immediately her fingers wrapped around the shaft, squeezing and beginning to jerk me off. I moaned happily into our kiss, feeling the bliss of finally receiving some pleasure as it exploded in my mind.
   And then it happened. Brandi was huffing and puffing as her orgasm built deep inside her. She rolled her hips back suddenly, dislodging both my finger and thumb from her ass and pussy. Her left hand tugged my body over and her right hand aimed my cock, and before I realized it, she’d pushed my mushroom head in between her labia and right to the entrance of her pussy.
   My conscience flashed a warning in my mind. Her words rang in my head:‘I’m trusting you, Ben. You’re my brother. We CAN’T have sex.’
   I broke the kiss just long enough gasp,“Brandi?”
   But then it was too late. Her feet clamped behind my ass and her left hand tugged at my waist, pressing me three inches into my sister’s vaginal tunnel. And then my own male instinct took over without my conscious knowledge, and with a roar of adrenaline, I slammed my hips forward and buried myself to the root. It was done. I was incestuously fucking my sister.
   “Ohhh, Ben!” Brandi’s eyes flew wide open with simultaneous delight and fear. And then her irises rolled back in her head as her body shuddered in orgasm. Her hips bucked at me so hard that it kicked her butt off the desk, dropping all her weight onto the joining of my dick in her pussy. I had to scramble to get my hands beneath her buttcheeks and haul her back onto the desk before I collapsed, and when I heaved us both forward I found myself once again cramming every single inch of brother-cock into sister-pussy.
   “Oh, FUCK!” She groaned as her pussy contracted again around my shaft, pinching me tightly while her body trembled.
   “Ben! Ben! Fuck me, Ben!” And then she was whimpering, “So wrong… so naughty… so wrong…”
   It took me a moment to realize that her whimpers were coming in a rhythmic cadence, the pace exactly matching my thrusts in and out of her body, thrusts I hadn’t been consciously aware I was making. But I was thrusting. I was pumping in and out. I was actively fucking my sister.
   And that knowledge was all it took to push me over the edge. This time it was my irises rolling into the back of my head and for a second, I thought I was going to faint from disbelief. But I didn’t faint. Instead, my orgasm came and when I slammed myself all the way in to the very depths of Brandi’s pussy, my cockhead split wide open and I started blasting great wads of hot semen that battered my sister’s cervical walls and pushed through into her womb.
   “Cum, Ben! Cum in me!” Brandi moaned as she clutched me with all four limbs.
   My adrenaline pulsed, my body lunged, and then I fired another incestuous blast of sperm into my sister’s pussy.
   And another…
   And another…
   And perhaps five or six shots later, when I was finally done, Brandi cuddled my head against her shoulder as we both panted and gasped in the aftermath of our illicit fucking.
   Brandi groaned.“So wrong…”
   “And yet,” I picked my head up and looked straight into Brandi’s eyes. “So right.”* * *
   Things got really awkward after I fucked Brandi.
   She had no recriminations and she didn’t blame me. We were both at fault for what had happened. But while I now saw Brandi as a beautiful young woman and my lover, she still saw her little brother and the same “wrongness” that had turned her on just minutes earlier now ate away at her conscience.
   When we’d both come down from our orgasmic highs, Brandi had firmly pushed me away and then stared in disbelief at the semen and other fluids trickling out of her worn pussy and onto my desktop. Without another word or even a look at me, she’d then quickly dismounted the desk, retrieved her panties, and fled the room.
   Only when I realized that she was running away did I belatedly call out,“Brandi!” But she was already out the door.
   Fully naked, I hurried to follow but she quickly darted into her own bedroom and shut the door, locking it behind her.
   “Brandi?” I called with concern and knocked.
   “Go away, Ben!”
   “But Brandi…”
   “I said, GO AWAY.”
   Wincing and now starting to feel guilt and remorse over what we’d done, I sighed and leaned forward, my head thumping against my sister’s bedroom door.
   “Ben…” Brandi’s voice softly floated through the hollow wood. “Please… just go away…”* * *
   I sat in my room for a long time, sitting on the same desk chair where I’d eaten out my sister’s pussy. I stared at the puddle of cum on the desk, proof and evidence of what I’d done.
   Brandi had trusted me. She told me she wanted to stay in control by only giving me blowjobs so that she wouldn’t be tempted. She’d asked for one oral orgasm, just one, so that we didn’t push ourselves so far out that there wasn’t any coming back.
   But I didn’t stop at one. I didn’t even stop at two. Yeah, she’d been pleading with me to keep going, but at the time I still had the self-control to stop us before we went too far. Only I didn’t stop us. I’d given in to my own lust, and Brandi had given in to her own lust, and when she’d pulled my cock into her body, I’d finished the job by thrusting myself into her.
   Eventually, I couldn’t look at the puddle of fluids any longer. I grabbed several paper towels and blotted up the mess. Then I grabbed a bottle of Windex and chemically washed the remains away as if trying to erase what had happened. I didn’t regret the sex. It had been one of the hottest sexual experiences of my life and I couldn’t bring myself to regret being so intimately connected to my sister. It just felt so… right.
   What I regretted was hurting Brandi. She was upset, and it was my fault. If she hadn’t been upset, if she’d felt as thrilled and excited that we’d fucked as I currently felt, I’d be the happiest guy in the world right now. But she wasn’t thrilled. She wasn’t excited.
   And it was my fault. I didn’t stop when I should have. Hell, I’d NEVER been very good at stopping when I should have. Once my pecker got hard, it always did my thinking for me.
   Even though I’d cleaned up the evidence, I found myself staring at the desk where we’d done the deed. Now, I couldn’t even look at the desk. So turning my head away, I focused on moving on with the rest of my day. Brandi and I would have to face each other eventually. I’d deal with that when the opportunity came.
   So I got dressed and brushed my teeth. I went down to the kitchen and poured myself a bowl of cereal, and I sighed, wondering how the hell I was going to fix this situation.
   But before I could get very far in my ruminations, the phone rang. I thanked the universe for giving me something else to think about, and I went and picked up the cordless handset.“Hello?”
   “Hi. May I please speak with Brandi?” The male voice was familiar. Was it one of her high school friends again?
   “Uh, can I ask who’s calling?”
   “My name’s Brian.” And then it hit me. This was the ‘Brian’ from Berkeley. If he was the potential boyfriend, maybe he could say something to cheer her up.
   “Uh, hang on,” I said and then hustled upstairs with the handset trapped against my chest.
   When I got to her room, the door was still closed.“Brandi?”
   “Go away, Ben!”
   “Uh, Brian is on the phone,” I said in a soft voice, trying to calm her down.
   She hesitated for a moment before weakly asking,“Brian?”
   “Yeah.”
   There were a few extra seconds of silence, and then over the open connection on my cordless handset, I heard Brandi pick up the phone extension in her bedroom.“Brian?”
   “Hey, Brandi! It’s so good to hear your voice!”
   “I can’t talk now, Brian.” Brandi’s voice was dead and monotonous.
   “Is something wrong?” Good guy. He heard the tone in her voice as well.
   “I just can’t talk now.” And then both Brian and I heard the [click] of Brandi setting her handset back into the cradle.
   Belatedly, I realized I didn’t want them to know I’d heard the little exchange, so quickly I punched the “On/Off” button on the cordless and the line went away. Hopefully Brian would just assume that was the end of it.
   And then I sighed. This was a really fucked up situation now.* * *
   Brandi didn’t come downstairs for the entire day. I knew because I was camped out in the family room, half-playing my game and half-watching like a hawk to see if she emerged. When my friends called for me to go out with them, I pleaded other problems and stayed home. When the twins called to be picked up, I just went to go get them. And Brooke walked herself home twenty minutes later.
   Only when our parents called everyone for dinner did Brandi finally emerge. Even then, she wouldn’t even look at me. It wasn’t that she seemed mean or rude. She directed no anger towards me whatsoever. She simply kept her interaction with me to a bare minimum and didn’t say much to anyone else, either. Eden and Emma were so energetic and talkative that no one else really even noticed.
   Late that night, I made it a point to stand in the hallway and try to talk to Brandi when she went for her evening shower. She didn’t even look at me as she walked fully dressed across the hallway and into the bathroom.
   I let myself go sit down in my own bedroom while the shower was still running. But the minute it stopped, I went back to my station just outside the bathroom door. Even though it was typical for me to be wearing just a towel as I waited my turn for the shower, this night I kept myself fully dressed so as not to imply anything sexual.
   She took a little longer than usual after the water went off. And when the door finally popped open, she was fully clad in a full pajama set, with long pants, a long-sleeved top, and I saw the obvious outline of a bra. Brandi wasn’t taking any chances, and her outfit probably covered more of her skin than any other clothing she’d worn all year.
   Once again, she didn’t even look at me, simply walking straight across the hall and then slowly closing her bedroom door in my face.
   Brandi couldn’t ignore me forever. But I was beginning to wonder if she was going to try and wait until January 21 when she flew back to college.* * *
   On Saturday morning, my older sister finally talked to me. Per usual, we both slept in, and I was brushing my teeth when Brandi came in and closed the bathroom door behind her. For a brief second, I imagined she was going to initiate something sexual between us, but she just wanted the extra layer of privacy for five seconds.
   I stopped my brush mid-stroke while the toothpaste foamed in my mouth. Brandi just took one deep breath and then said,“What we did was incest, and it was a mistake. It can’t ever happen again, understand?”
   I blinked twice and then nodded, not able to really answer verbally with my toothbrush in my mouth.
   Brandi offered me a tight smile and then she opened the door and walked away.
   For the rest of the afternoon, my older sister and I were cordial and friendly with each other, if notcompletely comfortable. She didn’t do anything to avoid me or otherwise alter her behavior around me. When Brooke convinced us both to help out with a puzzle, Brandi didn’t bat an eye when our hands accidentally touched when we both went for the same puzzle piece. When we sat in our usual spots on the couch to watch TV, she didn’t shy further away from me. And at lunch, we chatted together almost as if the whole episode had never happened.
   But I saw it in her eyes. There was a hesitation there every time she looked at me, as if she felt a physical twinge of guilt in every glance. I tried to will my brotherly affection to her with my returning gaze, to promise with my eyes that I would do anything it took to make things right between us. But I knew that it would be a while before we could get back to normal, if ever.
   And because of that low-level undercurrent of tension between us, by late afternoon my muscles had knotted and I was feeling pretty stressed out. We were both working so hard to act normal and force casual conversations that it was winding us into knots.
   But then the phone call came.
   “Megan!” I gushed with relief into the phone line.
   “I’m back! Can you come pick me up?”
   “I’ll be right there.”* * *
   “You bring her back soon. She still has to unpack,” Mrs. Kwan informed me without concern or malice. She’d gotten used to the idea of me as her daughter’s boyfriend.
   “Yes, ma’am,” I replied deferentially and then held a giggling Megan’s hand as I led her down to my car.
   I drove only around the block so that we were out of sight of the Kwan residence before pulling over, and then my hands were suddenly filled with excited girlfriend.
   “Ohhh… I missed you, Ben!” Megan sighed when we finally broke our lips apart to gasp for air. I just whimpered and held her a little too tightly, wound up as I was from the stressful day. She squealed and tapped my shoulder, “Too tight!”
   “Oh,” I relaxed my muscles and Megan started breathing more normally.
   “You seem to have really missed me,” Megan sighed happily.
   “I did,” I answered honestly, thinking of all the tension I’d recently been through. Things would have been so completely different if Megan had been around for the past week.
   “Oh, Ben… I want you right now,” Megan husked as she slid her hand down to the crotch of my jeans. And before I could react, she opened the button and started unzipping my fly.
   “Wait! Megan! Not here!” I gasped and whipped my head around, realizing that we were simply parallel parked in front of a bunch of residential houses.
   “Then you’d better hurry and find someplace a little more private.”* * *
   About an hour later, I returned Megan home. She squished excitedly in her seat, still with some of my cum lodged in her pussy even though she’d dabbed up most of it with napkins from my glove compartment.
   When she kissed me goodbye, I could still taste traces of my cum on her tongue. I’d nearly crashed when I came, and I warned her not to try blowing me again while driving down the Laguna Canyon road. There were too many head-on accidents on that road as it was, even when drivers weren’t distracted. At least we’d found a good turnoff away from prying eyes where Megan had been able to mount me in the passenger seat.
   When I got back to my own house, Brandi was one of the first people to see me as I came in the door. She took one look a the shit-eating grin on my face, and she actually gave me a warm smile. It was as if my relieving my sexual tension with Megan, my girlfriend, somehow got Brandi off the hook. Things were going back to normal, and our incestuous encounter hadn’t somehow ruined me for my girlfriend.* * *
   On Sunday, Megan and I took another drive to Laguna Canyon. Nestled in the foothills without another human being around us, save for the motorists whizzing by at sixty miles an hour just fifty feet away and around the corner, we brought ourselves to happy orgasms and then returned to our respective homes. It was New Year’s Eve, and both families had celebrations organized. Megan was going with her parents to some party. My family, with seven people, had more than enough for our own party.
   Mom and Dad let Brandi have a little champagne, and I even got to sip the foul stuff which tasted more like weak apple cider. Then my dad finally tossed me a beer and we celebrated the big conversion to the REAL Millennium, as my Dad pointed out the abject stupidity of the American Government’s idea that the new millennium had begun with the year 2000.JANUARY 2001, WINTER BREAK
   New Year’s Day itself was pretty anticlimactic. New Year’s Eve always seemed more important to me than New Year’s Day itself. All the parties were over and as far as I was concerned, it was just another day.
   Megan and I met up with our school friends and we hung out at Elaine Fukuhara’s house for a while, playing pool and generally just chatting. We snuck away for one quickie in a bedroom, and for the first time in memory, none of our friends were hanging around the hallway when we emerged.* * *
   Tuesday, January 2nd, was an exciting day for me. It was the day my other girlfriend, Cassidy, was coming home. And as she’d eagerly told me before she left, she would be protected by the pill when she got home.
   The only question was: where would we find some privacy to give her newly protected womb a good workout? With her parents staying home for the day they arrived, our usual spot in Cassidy’s bedroom was no longer an option.
   But at my house, both my parents were going back to work after the holiday season. The twins had made plans to go off and visit other friends, and Brooke was walking over to Jennifer’s again as well. That just left me and Brandi in the house, the same circumstances that had led to our illicit coupling only three days prior.
   We both knew that wasn’t going to happen again. But on the other hand, Brandi had shown a remarkable tolerance and understanding for me being sexually active. And so armed with hope for further understanding, on Tuesday morning I approached my sister as she curled up on the couch reading a book.
   “Hey, Brandi,” I said casually.
   “Hey, Ben. What’s up?” She looked at me without any tension or awkwardness, definitely a good sign.
   “Uh, well, I was kinda curious if you were planning to go out today. Meet up with friends or anything?”
   “Well, maybe later. Depends on who’s available. Why?” Brandi arched her eyebrow in almost a mirror image of the way I always did.
   I sputtered for a second trying to figure out how to frame my question when realization dawned on my sister’s face. “Oh. Cassidy’s coming home today, isn’t she?”
   I blushed and said,“Yes.”
   “And you’re looking for a place to fuck.”
   I blushed even deeper and said,“Yes.”
   Brandi smirked and then nodded.“Sure. Bring her here. If I don’t go out, I’ll make myself invisible.”
   “You sure?” I couldn’t believe my good luck.
   “Yeah, no problem,” Brandi shrugged and then waved me away, burying herself in her book and abruptly terminating our conversation. Her response actually seemed a little TOO abrupt, but I wasn’t about to open my mouth and say anything that would change the outcome I’d already desired. I had a place to bring Cassidy now.
   And at 11am, I got the call I’d been waiting for.
   “Cassidy!” I gushed with relief into the phone line.
   “I’m back! Can you come pick me up?”
   “I’ll be right there.” I hung up and turned to my sister. “Thanks, Brandi.”
   She waved me off.“See ya later, alligator.”* * *
   Unlike with Megan, I was not required to meet Cassidy’s parents upon arrival. She saw my car pull up and came out the front door even before I shut the engine off, a whirling dervish of red hair and tight jeans. “Hurry up, let’s go,” my second girlfriend urged while barely restraining herself in the passenger seat.
   “Aren’t your parents wondering where you’re going?” I wondered as I shifted the car into gear and started driving off.
   “Nuh-uh,” Cassidy shook her head. “I told them you were picking me up to meet with all our friends. They’re not expecting me back until dinner time.”
   “Great,” I grinned.
   “Speaking of which, we’re NOT meeting all our friends, are we?” Cassidy asked with a touch of worry.
   “What? Don’t care to see them anymore?” I teased.
   “Later. I’m more excited to see YOU. ALL of you,” Cassidy growled hungrily as her eyes roved up and down my body.
   “Well maybe not today. The gang said they’d be at the mall late this afternoon if we wanted to join them, but understood if we were too… busy… Even Megan went with them. She wanted you to know that this was YOUR day.”
   “Aww… she’s so sweet,” Cassidy grinned at the mention of her best friend. “Now, where are we going? You find some quiet parking lot or something?”
   I shook my head and grinned even wider.“No need. We’re going back to my place.”
   “Your place? But your sisters!” Cassidy looked nervous for the first time.
   “The only one home is Brandi. And she doesn’t care. Gave me the go-ahead.”
   “Really? Ohmigod, this is like a dream come true! I always wanted to do it on your bed!”
   “Really,” I smiled and then a new thought occurred to me. Abruptly, I pulled the car over to the side of the road and turned on my emergency flashers. “But I can’t wait that long. Kiss me, Cassidy.”
   The redheaded teen squealed and launched herself at me, wrapping me up in a delighted and long-delayed kiss. We moaned and hummed and happily devoured one another. I’d been missing my second girlfriend and finally kissing her again felt like a welcome relief from long, built-up anticipation.
   But rather than satisfy my lust, the kiss only spurred me on. I’m surprised I didn’t get a speeding ticket the rest of the way home.* * *
   “More Ben! Gimme more! Ohhh! You’re amazing! Harder! Harder! Pound the shit out of me, Ben!”
   I chuckled while listening to Cassidy shriek at the top of her lungs. The only times we’d had sex in a bed had been at her house, where we knew her parents were gone and there was no real reason to keep the volume down.
   But this time we were in my house, and I knew Brandi was either downstairs or in her bedroom just through the wall. If it was the latter, my sister could probably hear every single thing Cassidy was screaming.
   I’d told her this when we first got started and Cassidy managed to keep her exclamations down to low moans. She started screaming after her first orgasm once I entered her without a condom, but I shushed her and she settled for frantically kissing me in an effort to keep the volume down.
   But after her second orgasm, the pleasure neurons started going off in Cassidy’s brain and nothing I could do would shut her up. And I decided to just let her shriek her head off and concentrated on what I was doing.
   “Oh, are you gonna cum, Ben? Are you gonna cum inside my pretty pussy? I’m on the pill now, Ben, so you can cum whenever you want. Spurt me, spunk me, fill me with your juices, Ben. There’s no condom anymore. I want to feel your hot jizz splattering against my insides. Do it, Ben. Do it!”
   I’d started hyperventilating when Cassidy launched into her dirty narrative. And when she ordered me to ‘Do it’ the second time, I suddenly gasped and felt my entire body go taut as it readied itself for ejaculation.
   And then I was there. The pretty 16-year-old writhed beneath me and flashed her emerald eyes as she felt my hips dart forward. And then she closed her eyes and hummed happily as she felt my essence splashing into her body.
   “Ugh! Cum, baby!” she groaned.
   I just grunted and fired another wad.
   “CUM!”
   I fired again. And when I was done, Cassidy patted my back and whispered,“Good boy. Thank you.”
   “My pleasure, ma’am,” I drawled.
   Cassidy giggled and then kissed me. And when she pulled back she looked deep into my eyes and sighed,“I love you so much, Ben.”
   I grinned and answered comfortably,“Love you too, Freckles.”
   Without dislodging my prick, she then started to wriggle her hips around, sloshing my semen deep inside herself.“Hmm, think you can go again pretty soon?”
   I chuckled.“Think you can keep it down this time?”
   Cassidy pouted and then smiled.“Probably not.”
   Too bad for Brandi.“Oh well. I guess I’ll live with that.” And then I growled as I attacked her lips.* * *
   Brandi was still home when I returned from dropping off Cassidy, my sister’s bedroom door slightly ajar. I peeked in just to check that she was there, and she glanced up at me. “Quite a screamer you’ve got there.”
   I blushed.“She’s not used to trying to keep quiet.”
   Brandi just shook her head and sighed.“I couldn’t keep quiet while you were fucking me, either.”
   Both of us went dead quiet after that comment, silence the very definition of awkward. But then Brandi shook her head again to clear out her dirty thoughts. And when she spoke, her vocal tone was tightly controlled.“It’s no big deal. If you want to bring a girlfriend over any time I’m here, I won’t mind, okay?”
   “Uh, thanks,” I nodded and then nervously glanced around while I thought of a good excuse to run away. I was saved by the phone ringing.
   “Hello?” Brandi said after reaching over and picking up the handset in her room. “Brian!”
   I just lowered my eyes and quietly backed away. But before I got out of earshot, I heard Brandi moan,“Oh, gawd, Brian. I’m so FUCKING horny! Talk to me. I need to cum.” There was no more control in my sister’s voice.
   I knew I should just close Brandi’s door and walk away. I knew I shouldn’t listen in on her very private conversation.
   But I couldn’t help myself. I closed her door alright, but I went to my own bedroom and softly tapped on the speakerphone.
   “You wouldn’t believe it!” Brandi gasped. “My little brother brought his girlfriend over to the house and fucked her brains out. The little slut was screaming what seemed like hours and I got sooo turned on listening to them go at it!”
   Brian encouraged Brandi to physically act on her arousal by masturbating herself while he husked dirty thoughts across the line. And even though I’d just dumped three loads of cum into my redheaded girlfriend, I felt my cock come alive once again while I listened to Brandi and Brian having phone sex.
   And when Brandi started moaning in ecstasy, I couldn’t help but picture her sitting on my desk, impaled on my cock. So I closed my eyes, wrapped my hand around my shaft, and began stroking while I listened to my older sister panting with arousal. And when she started screeching blissfully into the phone, finally achieving her orgasm, so did I.* * *
   Sometime later, Brandi came downstairs with a goofy grin on her face. She headed for the kitchen and poured herself a glass of juice, but when she looked up she seemed quite surprised to find me on the couch in the family room.
   My Playstation was off. The TV was off as well. There had been no sound coming from the family room to announce my presence, as I’d just been sitting on the couch in contemplation. This of course, was a thoroughlyweird thing for a 16-year-old boy to be doing, so Brandi just looked at me dumbly.
   I broke the ice by asking,“How is Brian doing?”
   Brandi suddenly looked guilty and suspicious at the same time, glaring at me and looking upset that I’d violated her privacy. But she hadn’t known I was listening in on her phone sex. So I waggled my head and reminded her, “I was in your room when he first called…”
   “Oh, right, right. Uh, Brian’s fine. He’s, uh, going to meet me at the airport when I fly back.”
   “That’s good.” I smiled. “Then you can FINALLY get laid.”
   Brandi blushed, but she moved into the family room and sat down on the wing chair at a 90-degree angle to me. Casually, she kicked her feet up and over the near armrest while sinking down into the opposite corner, making herself comfortable. She didn’t appear to realize that this maneuver made her short robe get bundled around her waist, revealing her light pink panties to my gaze. My eyes dropped for a brief second but came back up to her face before she’d realized it.
   My sister looked thoughtful for a moment, holding her glass with both hands and taking a sip while collecting herself. And then after blinking a couple times, she took a deep breath and then asked,“Ben, do you regret what we did?”
   I sat up straighter.“No, not at all.”
   “Really?”
   “Really. You were incredibly sexy, Brandi. Still are.” I let my eyes obviously drop down my sister’s panty-covered crotch, and I held that gaze long enough for her to be sure where I was looking.
   At first, Brandi moved to cover herself, but she stopped after the first twitch. And then, to my utter amazement, she actually spread her legs a little wider, opening herself up to my gaze.“It gets me so hot when you look at me that way, Ben.”
   I was sure I had quite the wolfish expression on my face.“It gets me hot when I look at you, Brandi.”
   “And you really have no regrets?”
   I was about to confirm my negative answer, but then I remembered and my face softened.“Well, just one thing: YOU seemed to regret it. I love you, Brandi. You’re my big sister and you could be a real bitch sometimes, but you’re my sister. And I never want to see you in pain. But after we… after wefucked, you withdrew away from me. You were in turmoil, and I desperately wanted to make you feel better.”
   Brandi bit her lip nervously.“I WAS in turmoil. Still am. It’s just wrong, Ben, don’t you see that?”
   “Why?”
   “Because you’re my brother!” she exclaimed while her eyes popped open.
   “So? It’s not like we’re gonna get married or something.” I shrugged. “It’s just sex. You’re a total babe, Brandi. A guy would have to be dead to not physically want you.”
   “But we still shouldn’t have done it. And it’s entirely my fault. I KNEW you wouldn’t resist me and I seduced you.”
   “Bullshit. I’m just as at fault as you are.”
   “You’re just a boy, Ben. A 16-year-old boy thinking with your dick. I’m supposed to be the responsible adult and I pushed the situation to where fucking was inevitable. I’ve… I’ve corrupted you.”
   I pulled my head back and furrowed my eyebrows.“What? No! You got horny. I got horny. We both wanted to screw and so we screwed. There’s no fault. No blame. You didn’t corrupt me.” I shook my head. “And you can’t just blame it on me being a guy. Girls can get just as horny as guys. And at some point, you’ve got to do something about it.”
   I shrugged and gestured towards my sister.“Like today. You heard me and Cassidy going at it; ergo, you got horny. And from the look on your face when you came downstairs, I’ve got to assume you and Brian did something about it on the phone.”
   Brandi blushed bright pink and glanced away.“’Ergo’?” she said in an amused voice.
   I rolled my eyes.“SATs. And you’re stalling.”
   Her breathing had become shallow and her hand got a little busier in her crotch. She seemed to not care that I could plainly see her masturbating.“Yeah, me and Brian did something. But it wasn’t enough. I’m still horny. I still want a real cock.”
   “I’ve got one right here.”
   She sighed.“I want it, Ben. I really want it. But I can’t have it.”
   I took a deep breath.“You can, you know. Anytime you want it, you can have it. I’ll gladly fuck your brains out.”
   “Ben…” Brandi pleaded in a torn voice. “Don’t tempt me.”
   “Okay, okay,” I held my hands up. “Look, the last thing I want to do is make you uncomfortable or awkward around me. Now maybe we can never go back to the way things were between us because of what happened. But I want you to know that no matter what, I will always be your brother. And no matter what, I will always love you. We might have sex again. We may never touch each other again for as long as we live. Either way, I’ll always be your brother.”
   Brandi’s eyes sharpened and she took looked at me intently. “You want to have sex with me right now, don’t you, Ben?” Her hand idly pulled at her robe, parting it to the side and slowly revealing one of her naked breasts to my gaze. She didn’t pull it far enough to show the nipple, but I still had a healthy view of a very nice tit.
   I looked at her with lust in my eyes, seeing the beautiful babe she truly was.“You know I do.”
   When Brandi looked up at me, I saw the lust flaring in her eyes as well.“Me, too,” she said softly.
   I started breathing heavily as my heart sped up with arousal. Brandi’s tongue flickered out across her upper lip, and I knew that if I got up and went to her right now, I could probably seduce her. I could kiss her, put my hands on her breasts, and eventually shove my dick into her pussy. But before I could make a move, Brandi got up out of her chair.
   “But I shouldn’t. It’s wrong.” She tapped her head. “Up here, I know that. It’s incest, Ben.”
   I shrugged.“You didn’t seem to have a problem with Dawn and Dayna having sex. They’re siblings, too.”
   “They’re both girls, Ben. It’s different. They can’t get knocked up from that and have deformed little babies. And sisters are almost expected to experiment and teach each other. There’s no dick involved. But with you and me, brother and sister, that’s different. We can’t cross that line.”
   I sighed, opening my hands wide.“We already did. And nothing we do from here on out will change that.”
   Brandi moaned in frustrated pain, still clearly conflicted between her lust and moral disquiet. She started walking away, stopped, and started again. Once, she paused and looked back at me, lust clearly etched into her eyes. But then shaking her head, she turned away and walked back upstairs.
   That night, I fell asleep to visions of my beautiful older sister naked in my arms.* * *
   I felt something tickle my balls, and with a start, I jerked awake.
   “Mmph!” Brandi was ready for my dick to lurch, and she accepted the thrust down her throat with aplomb. And once my hips settled back down, she bobbed her head up and down me a few more times, getting me good and wet while also ensuring that I was as rock hard as I’d ever be.
   After those sucks, Brandi popped her head off and sat upright. I then realized that my older sister was completely naked. And as my eyes went wide in surprise at what was going on, she threw one leg over my hips, grabbed by dick and started aiming her own pussy at my upright shaft.
   “Brandi,” I gasped. “What are you doing?”
   There was just the slightest hesitation on her face as she looked at me, but then her eyes tilted with determination as she replied,“Nothing we haven’t done before.”
   And then my dick was in my sister once again.
   “We already crossed this line before,” Brandi said softly. “Nothing we do from here on out will change that. So I might as well enjoy it.”
   Neither of us said much for the first few minutes. Brandi had her eyes closed and her posture was very erect. Her mouth hung open while she panted and moaned, riding me while pawing at her own tits and diddling her own clit. It was as if she was just fucking herself upon me, using me as a living, upright dildo. I didn’t mind because her toned, fit body looked absolutely fabulous and her high, firm tits jiggled wonderfully with every stroke. And her pussy was exquisitely snug and it clasped around my cock like an individual sucking mouth that was mind-blowing in the pleasure it gave me.
   Brandi’s tone was relatively quiet, mostly whimpers and soft moans while she seemingly played out some fantasy behind her closed eyes. But they were still clearly the moans of a woman having sex and after darting my eyes to the clock to find that it was 10:30am on Wednesday, I sincerely prayed that this was one of those weekdays were only Brandi and I were in the house. The LAST thing I needed was for a curious little sister to come bursting in and find us in such a compromising position.
   Just then, my wondering about Brandi’s moans ceased to matter as she sped up and started chanting, “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!” A simple moan might be explained away, but that phrase was pretty unequivocal.
   Brandi reached down then and still with her eyes closed, she brought my hands up to cup both of her breasts. And then with a firm grip on my forearms, she humped me harder and harder, really driving my dick far up into her pussy on every stroke.
   I watched, entranced, as Brandi ramped up to her orgasm. Her forehead crinkled and her eyebrows tilted in together just before she came. Her face screwed up and her jaw dropped down at the same time she inhaled sharply. And then all at once, she exploded with energy as her body jerked forward, slamming her tits into my hands. Her fingers tightly gripped my forearms. Her head was thrown back. And she howled in ecstasy at the ceiling.
   And inside, her pussy clamped down on me like a vise, and if I’d been anywhere close to my own orgasm, I would have spurted in her right then and there. But I wasn’t close yet, and so I simply rode out my sister’s internal spasms and external shudders as her orgasm passed through her.
   Two minutes later, with Brandi breathing heavily and her entire torso kind of slumped inward even though she kept her body upright, my sister blinked her eyes open and managed to focus her gaze on me. I gave her a brotherly smile, even though I was in the very un-brotherly position of having an erect cock buried inside her snatch.
   Brandi sighed then and looked at me, reaching forward with her right hand to tenderly draw her fingers along my temples and down my cheek.“I couldn’t help it, Ben. I HAD to have you again.”
   I gave her a soft smile and said,“Are you sorry you did?”
   She sighed heavily and looked away for a moment, moisture forming in her eyes.“It’s wrong. I know that.” She tapped her head. “Up here, I know that.”
   Then Brandi moved her fingers to her chest, tapping between her breasts.“But in here, it doesn’t seem so wrong. I love you, little brother.” And then Brandi moved her fingers to her pussy, rubbing over her clit. “And down here, it feels so RIGHT.”
   I just blinked, not sure how to respond. Silence had always worked for me in the past, and I waited her out.
   “You’re an amazing lover, Ben.”
   I chuckled.“I didn’t do anything but lay here.”
   “You weren’t just laying there when you fucked me on your desk. And you weren’t just laying there when you made Cassidy cum a half-dozen times yesterday. I know; I was watching you.”
   I arched my eyebrow.“Watching?”
   She grinned.“You were in such a hurry, you never bothered to close your bedroom door, Ben.”
   “Oh,” I blushed in embarrassment.
   Brandi sighed again.“Ben, I’m not IN love with you. I love you, certainly, but I don’t think I could ever be IN love with you.”
   “That’s fine. Never asked you to.”
   “I just don’t want to lead you on,” Brandi explained. “But I AM in total, complete, and absolute LUST with you. I’ve wanted to fuck you since that first time Dayna brought me to yours and Dawn’s little clearing. And now that we have, I can’t stop. I don’t WANT to stop.”
   “Me, neither,” I smiled and twitched my dick inside Brandi’s pussy.
   She felt it and smiled. But then a look of concern crossed her face.“Can you really do this to Megan and Cassidy? Isn’t this cheating?”
   I shrugged.“You’re not my girlfriend, Brandi. You never will be. You’re my sister and you’re not a threat to them. I didn’t have a problem having sex with Dawn even though I’d already started dating Megan. And I don’t have a problem having sex with you. If you’re free and I’m free, why not?”
   A small ray of hope crossed Brandi’s face. “Really?”
   “Really,” I grinned. “Now, you fucked me already this morning. I think it’s my turn now.” I suddenly grabbed my sister and violently rolled us over so that she was flat on her back. The motion dislodged my cock, but without further preamble I kneed her legs apart and then rammed myself back into her, pressing through her tightness until I was once again balls-deep inside her.
   “Oh, gawd,” Brandi moaned as she felt my larger body looming over her while I gripped her arms in my strong hands. “Ben, you’ve REALLY grown up.”
   “You’d better believe it,” I growled. And then I proceeded to fuck my sister’s brains out, pounding her body and ramming her full of brother-cock over and over again.
   I didn’t stop at one orgasm. I didn’t even stop at two. We kept fucking and fucking until Brandi’s worn-out pussy was overflowing with incestuous brother-cum, leaking out of her to puddle on the bed.
   After her latest spine-tingling climax, I gave my sister just enough time to catch her breath. And then I rolled her over and fucked her again.
   Chapter 10: Sister IIJANUARY 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Oh, gawd… oh, gawd… fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!”
   Brandi looked so amazing bent over on all fours. She really did have a dynamite ass. And I felt incredibly lucky to have been the one to stick my face between her cheeks and lick her and suck her and squeeze her until she came all over my face.
   My face. Not Brian’s. No, he was still dreaming about doing what I was doing to Brandi. And I was determined to screw my sister so well that she’d come home to me for the summer or maybe spring break, complaining about how she hadn’t gotten a proper fucking since she left and how she needed me to boink her lights out.
   With that pleasant thought, I knelt behind my older sister, slipped my dick into her from behind, and then proceeded to fuck the shit out of her. I gripped her hips and really started laying the pipe, plunging into her the darkest recesses of her vaginal tunnel with every stroke.
   And just when I felt myself about to cum, I reached around and tweaked her nipple, herleft nipple, the one that seemed to be hardwired to her clit. And with my right hand I started strumming her clit itself, the dual stimulation enough to push Brandi over the edge and send her screaming into orgasm.
   “Aaaaaahhhhh!” my older sister wailed, and then I was joining her in yelling as I flooded her pussy with my latest load of incestuous spunk.
   Almost immediately after I finished sperming her, Brandi collapsed face-down on her bed and lay there, gasping for air. I managed to keep myself upright for a little longer before leaning back and then sinking my naked butt onto my heels.
   When we both had caught our breath, I slid off the bed and ducked down briefly to place a soft kiss on Brandi’s butt. Then I rapidly left little pecking kisses up my sister’s spine until I got to her head, where I tilted my head to the side and gave her a warm, tongue-filled kiss of passion.
   When we were done with that, the beautiful teenage brunette with blonde highlights picked her head up and propped it on one hand, supporting her head with her elbow.“Why didn’t we do this sooner?”
   I shrugged.“You were waiting for me to grow up.”
   She sighed.“Riiight.” She huffed. “I wish you weren’t going back to school. I’ve got two more weeks of Winter Break and I’m going to spend half the time wishing I was in bed with you, Ben.”* * *
   It was the first day of school in January. The air was crisp and filled with the hum of high school students refreshed by two weeks of vacation.
   “Hiii, Ben…” Cassidy sashayed up to me and planted a firm kiss on my lips while rubbing her ample boobs into my chest. When she broke for air, I saw that there was another cute girl walking up to us.
   “Hiii, Ben…” Megan neatly slid in and planted a firm kiss on my lips while rubbing her pelvis against my crotch. When she broke for air, I saw a third figure walking up to us.
   “Hiii, Ben…” Kenny Doyle said in a mock-female voice, moving closer to me and obviously puckering up.
   “Fuck you,” I grinned and shoved Kenny in the chest, playfully knocking him back on his heels.
   “What? Too many girlfriends already?” He said in pretend-disappointment.
   I grinned.“You can never have too many girlfriends. I just don’t want any BOYfriends.”
   “Hey!” Megan pushed my shoulder. “You’ve got plenty enough girlfriends. Got it, buster?”
   “Of course, of course,” I smiled and bowed my head in deference to her.
   “Besides,” Cassidy drawled while winking at Kenny. “Didn’t the two of us completely wear you out on Saturday?”
   I sighed and remembered the night before last. Cassidy’s parents had gone out to some party, leaving our trio four hours of playtime. I probably could have lasted a bit longer, but unbeknownst to my girls, Brandi had sucked a load out of me just before lunch.
   “That was a fluke,” I said while puffing up my chest with as much teenaged ego as I could muster. “Only because you guys mentally drained me with your convoluted ‘decision’.”
   Both girls smiled. Last week, after both returned from their family trips, my two girlfriends had gotten together to discuss our three-way relationship… WITHOUT me. Then, on Saturday, the two of them sprung their “decision” on me, each of them alternately explaining to me my role while the other gave me a blowjob to ensure I agreed to every one of their conditions.
   In a nutshell, they valued their friendship over and above their love for me. They’d hated how their petty jealousies made them compete over me, and resolved to stop fighting each other. No one boy should drive them apart. At first, I’d panicked and thought this meant they would both break up with me. It just seemed logical to remove the object of conflict from the field.
   But while Megan was explaining this, Cassidy was giving me a blowjob, which seemed to preclude the“breaking up” theory.
   For some reason that perhaps only made logical sense in the minds of 16-year-old girls, I made each of them happy and they wanted to continue being my girlfriends. I was given a very simple set of rules: [1] Don’t cheat on them, [2] Don’t play favorites, and [3] Be ready to explain to one girlfriend exactly what I had done with the other girlfriend.
   The first rule was obvious. Megan reiterated her“chopping off of my dick” warning should I violate the first rule. I knew I’d still be boinking Brandi for two more weeks, but I didn’t consider my sister to be cheating.
   The second rule was designed not to inflame a woman’s natural impulse for jealousy. There would be no “first” girlfriend or any other favoritism. They were equals and both girls resolved to do their best to not try and “out-do” the other.
   And the third rule was their safety check. No more secrets. No more sneaking off for a Tuesday rendezvous with Cassidy to be kept hidden from Megan. If one girlfriend tried to break the second rule, the other girlfriend could ask me about it and expect a straight answer.
   Me? I thought the whole thing was a house of cards just waiting for a stiff breeze. Teenaged girls aren’t much better than teenaged boys at thinking rationally 100 % of the time and I just knew there would be some event in the near future that would force us all to move on, grow up, and see other people. But for now, I had two cute girls who both wanted to screw my lights out, starting with this afternoon’s Monday study group.
   “Well, you two may have ‘worn me out’ on Saturday,” I drawled. Then I grinned salaciously at my redheaded girlfriend. “I’ll show you worn out this afternoon.”
   Cassidy giggled, Megan blushed, and Kenny just sighed with jealousy and shook his head. Then he turned away to head off for his first class.
   But before he could leave, a fourth figure came down the hall.
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came the sultry, sweet voice from my left. I glanced over to see Adrienne Dennis cruising along as if modeling on a catwalk, her spray-painted jeans hugging her curves, a blue V-neck with lighter blue long-camisole underneath hugging her big bosoms and drawing the attention of everyone to her tits.
   She slowed down and smiled at me.“How was your vacation?”
   Without fear or intimidation, I squared my shoulders and just smiled back.“Good. Yours?”
   “Just great.” Adrienne turned her gaze to my girlfriends and also to Kenny, who was visibly drooling as he ogled the gorgeous cheerleader. “See ya later.”
   Both Kenny’s and my eyes automatically followed the sway of Adrienne’s ass as she glided away. And then once she got halfway down the hall I pulled back and glanced at my girls. Both Megan and Cassidy were glaring at me heatedly.
   I shrugged.“What?”* * *
   I felt something tickle my balls, and with a start, I jerked awake.
   Brandi was bobbing her head up and down in my lap, slurping noisily. But despite the wet heat and her sucking mouth, I wasn’t feeling a whole lot coming from my nether regions. I was both worn out and worried about getting caught.
   “Brandi!” I hissed in a quiet voice. “What are you doing?”
   She popped off with a frustrated look.“That’s a dumb question.”
   I rolled my eyes.“It’s 6:30! EVERYONE is still home!” It was hard to keep my voice down with the panic rising inside me.
   “Calm down, calm down,” my older sister glared at me, her eyes turning her words into an order. At least she was fully dressed. If anyone came in, she could quickly tuck me back into my shorts and we might be able to fake looking normal, especially because I wasn’t that hard.
   “C’mon, Ben, what’s wrong with you,” Brandi whined while trying to jack my cock. “Don’t worry about Mom and Dad. They NEVER come check the bedrooms before breakfast.”
   “It’s not them,” I sighed. “Megan and Cassidyreally wore me out yesterday. I mean REALLY wore me out.” With school back in session, my girlfriends both wanted to restrict our extra-curricular activities to the Monday study group and Friday night dates. Oh, there would be the occasional weekend visits and they reserved the right to request a mid-week tryst at Cassidy’s house, but in order to focus on their studies, we were limited to two regularly scheduled fuckings per week.
   So both girls really wanted to make those two times COUNT. It was like dating Megan last semester, only times two. And 16-year-old boy or not, there’s only so much a human body can take.
   “C’mon, Ben, please? If not now, when? Brooke and everyone will be home after school.” And with that, Brandi started to open up her pajamas, bringing my hand up to her naked breast. And as she dragged her panties and pajama pants down, I felt a stirring in my dormant cock. “THERE we go…”
   “If we get caught, we’re SOOO dead,” I sighed. If anyone barged in now, there would be no explaining a naked older sister. But viewing my older sister’s nude body had done the trick, and as my dick rose, we both knew there would be no further protests coming from me.
   “We won’t get caught,” Brandi said confidently as she moved into a sixty-nine over my body. So with a little oral loving on my part while she rode my face, we were both soon ready and Brandi turned around and sank herself down onto my cock. And then she rode me until we both had satisfying, if muffled, climaxes.
   When we were done, Brandi cleaned herself up and then redressed. Before she left, she paused and turned to me.“Have fun at school,” Brandi smiled as she blew me a kiss. And then she slipped out the door and back to her own bedroom.* * *
   “Who’s worn out now?” Cassidy teased when I dragged myself to class with big bags under my eyes.
   These three girls were going to kill me.* * *
   Just before fifth period, Adrienne fell into step with me, my gaze momentarily drawn down to where her big tits wobbled enticingly in her too-tight top.“Wow Ben. You look like you’ve been fucked half to death.”
   Despite my exhaustion, I couldn’t help but grin with pride. “Yeah…”
   The gorgeous blonde sighed and clutched her books tighter over her chest.“I’m sooo jealous.”
   “C’mon, now that football season is over, I’m sure Jake has a lot more time for you.”
   Adrienne smirked.“Time, we have. Skill on the other hand…” she sighed. “Jake is all muscles and thumbs and he only knows how to fuck at one speed. Sometimes I don’t know why I’m with him.”
   “Because he’s the most popular guy in school and that makes you two the most popular couple in school?” I ventured with more than a little sarcasm in my voice.
   Adrienne pouted.“You say that as if it’s a BAD thing.”
   I held my hands up.“Hey, I’m not going to tell you how to live your life. You’ve got every girl in school wishing she was you, including my girlfriends.”
   Adrienne smiled and then stopped dead in her tracks. I took two more steps before stopping myself and turning to face her while her eyes darted back and forth for a few seconds. And then Adrienne looked up at me with a look of pure lust on her face.“If every girl wishes she was me, why do I find myself wishing I was one of your girlfriends?”
   Even a confused frown couldn’t detract from Adrienne’s raw physical beauty. Her eyes sharpened and perfectly sculpted eyebrows pinched in, simply giving her a more dangerous and angular look. She stared at me for a long few moments, her jaw quivering as real anger started to come into her eyes. And then without another word, she strode past me in a hurry.
   “Adrienne?” I asked.
   “Fuck off, Ben,” she spat and marched away.
   I’ll never understand women.* * *
   That night, just after 11pm, I cornered Brandi in the kitchen while she was pouring herself some coffee. Habit from college. Everyone else was upstairs and asleep already, so I wasn’t too worried about being interrupted.
   “Look, sis. I LOVE what we’re doing, but we need to figure out some ground rules. You can’t keep sneaking into my bedroom when the whole family is still in the house! Especially in the mornings when someone might wake up!”
   Brandi pouted,“I washorny. I didn’t have a single orgasm all Monday.”
   “And you know I’m happy to help you out with that, but we can’t keep taking risks like that. We can tell Mom we’re driving to the mall or something; I know a few places we can park. But not in the house. There’s just too big a chance of you getting caught sneaking out of my bedroom if someone wakes up early.”
   “What about now? At night? Everyone else is asleep. I’m good at keeping quiet.”
   I sighed,“Maybe.” I started thinking about other ways we might get caught.
   Brandi just grinned and set her coffee mug down. Then she dropped her pants and panties to the floor in one fluid motion before hopping her butt onto the kitchen counter right beside her coffee. Then she spread her legs to the sides and husked,“Eat me, Ben.”
   “Brandi!” I hissed.
   “Everyone’s asleep. C’mon. We won’t get caught,” Brandi said confidently.
   I sighed.
   “Besides, don’t you wanna taste my pretty pussy?” My sister spread her legs and I sighed again. My hormones had already made my decision for me.
   Bracing my hands on the counter’s edge, I bent and took my first lick along her closed slit, sending shivers up my sister’s spine that had nothing to do with the cold granite surface.
   Brandi giggled and reached down to her coffee mug, picking it up and taking a sip even while I continued licking her snatch.“Thanks, Ben. You’re the greatest little brother in the world.”* * *
   After satisfying my older sister on Tuesday night, she kept her word on Wednesday morning. She let me sleep in and didn’t sneak into my bedroom. So I woke up with my alarm clock and for a brief second, I regretted not letting Brandi wake me up with a blowjob.
   The same went for Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Brandi and I quietly screwed, twice, close to midnight before nearly falling asleep together. I would have been really awkward for our parents to find us like that in the morning. Fortunately, she woke up and snuck back to her room.
   That’s not to say that my relationship with my sister was nothing but late night screwing. Brandi wanted to go more than once every night, and even though I had teenaged hormones, I needed a little downtime between shaggings to recharge.
   During those breaks, I learned a lot about my sister that I’d never known before. Sure, I was aware that she hated peas because Mom had to go out of her way to make an extra vegetable at dinner times. I knew stuff like that. But I’d never known that Brandi had grown up wanting to be an Astronaut; and that when I was a baby she would pretend I was her co-pilot as we flew to the moon on the couch/rocket ship. I’d never known that the only reason she was an Econ/Accounting major was because Mom and Dad put so much pressure on her to be the successful, eldest child and go into business. She really wanted to be an Art History major, and she’d spent a lot of time at all the museums in the greater L.A. area.
   And I found out that Brandi never swallowed for any of her other boyfriends. She only did it with me because she loved the naughty little thrill of knowing she was swallowing down her little brother’s cum, and that thrill outweighed the bad taste. I certainly would never have known that under any other circumstances.
   So I learned a little more about her each day. And the next day, things were just that much more comfortable between us hanging around in the evenings, both of us with little grins at the knowledge of what we’d get to do the later that night.* * *
   After school on Thursday, Megan and Cassidy kept their word by NOT inviting me to Cassidy’s house for sex for the third weekday in a row. We all had a ton of homework and other new assignments from the start of the new semester, and the girls were both top students and dead set on staying that way.
   I did make one mild complaint when I parted ways with Megan in the parking lot while Brooke and her little boyfriend, Perry Anderson, were giving each other goodbye smooches. I whined to Megan,“I know you said nothing regular, but I WAS hoping for theoccasional mid-week or weekend.”
   Megan giggled,“Men. Always thinking with your dicks. It’s only been THREE DAYS, Ben.”
   “Okay, okay,” I didn’t want to press the issue. That was part of my reputation, I never pressed the issue. And because I didn’t press, my girlfriend was very happy with me and gave me a very passionate goodbye kiss to let me know she was very happy with me. Megan wanted a loyal, understanding boyfriend who would complement her life, not dominate it, and I was dedicated to being that boyfriend.
   Besides, even though I really wanted to have a threesome with Megan and Cassidy, I’d still get to have a late night sex session with Brandi. I could survive until my Friday night date with the girls.
   It’s just that I wanted BOTH.
   But Megan and Cassidy didn’t know that. They just thought I was a patient and understanding boyfriend who had my libido in check. And that meant that my girlfriends were even happier with me as their boyfriend.
   I had a very near-perfect situation. Not only did I have TWO cute 16-year-old girlfriends whose ideas for a good time were to tag team me and never stop until I was sexually satisfied, but I also had a beautiful older sister whose idea of killing time during Winter Break was to fuck me every night and take my incestuous spunk deep in her clasping pussy.
   Of course, perfect situations never last for long.* * *
   “Brandi… Brandi…” I huffed. “This is dangerous…”
   “Relax, Ben. We won’t get caught,” my sister took her mouth off my cock and panted for air, licking her lips. “I told you, the twins are gone for the day and Brooke walked to Jennifer Vo’s place. With Mom and Dad visiting Aunt Mary, you’ve got nothing to worry about.”
   Brandi then grinned at me and pushed at my torso, shoving me back into the armchair so that I slumped lower and pushed more of my dick into her mouth. I did try to relax. I let my body sag into the backrest. I closed my eyes. And I put my hands on top of my sister’s head as she bobbed up and down my prick. It was a lazy Saturday and everyone was out of the house. I had nothing to worry about.
   And yet I couldn’t get the little alarming tingle out of the back of my head.
   Presently, Brandi deemed me hard enough for fucking and she quickly stood up and dropped her panties. She was wearing a skirt this day and simply hiked the material up to her waist, showing off her toned thighs, and then she straddled me and tugged my cock into position.
   While Brandi mounted me and impaled her pussy on my dick, I slid the shoulder straps of her shirt down her arms and tugged the neckline down to expose her tits. The high-set, round melons were lightly supported by her bra, but I reached around and unsnapped her to free her tits enough so that I could pull them up and fasten my lips around a nipple.
   “Ohhh… fuck me, Ben…” Brandi crooned into my ear while clutching my head to her chest and bouncing herself up and down my rod.
   I did as requested, using the springiness of the couch cushion to help my thrusting while I pinched both of my sister’s breasts together so that I could feast on them together.
   And that’s when we heard her.
   The light whimper was quiet, very quiet. But I was between grunts and Brandi was between gasps, leaving a vacuum of silence in which the little whimper was just loud enough to carry across the room.
   I immediately froze and went straight into a panic. We were caught! My worst nightmare had come true! Who had caught us? Was it Mom, back home unexpectedly to find her two eldest children committing incest? Or heaven forbid, was it the twins, who would be forever scarred by witnessing such a depraved sexual act before their immature minds could handle it?
   Even worse, was it one of my girlfriends come to visit me? I didn’t consider screwing Brandi to be cheating, since she was family and no possible threat to displace them as girlfriend, especially once she flew away in another week. But even if I didn’t consider it cheating, Megan or Cassidy might. I would miss my dick if Megan followed through and chopped it off.
   But while I froze and panicked, Brandi was much more decisive in her actions. She immediately spun to look for the intruder and quickly spotted the skulking teenager trying to hide behind the loveseat opposite us.
   “Brooke!” Brandi screeched in an angry and annoyed voice. “What the FUCK are you doing here?”
   Almost instantly, our 14-year-old little sister popped her head out with wide-eyes locked onto the fucking couple in front of her. Nervously, she stammered.“Uh… Jennifer’s family was out. No one was home. So I came back.”
   “How long have you been watching us?” Brandi frowned and pinched her eyebrows together. She did not, however, make any move to get off my dick. At least I figured her skirt would be covering most of our joining from view. And since Brooke was in a position behind Brandi, I figured she would nothave had a view of me nibbling on our older sister’s tits. Maybe it wasn’t so bad, no real skin observed.
   Brooke just shrugged and replied,“Since you were giving Ben a blowjob.”
   Oh, crap. That meant that my little sister had now seen my erection. How would I be able to even look at her across the dinner table or while driving her to school without knowing that little fact? Immediately, I felt myself going soft inside of Brandi’s pussy.
   My older sister felt me deflating inside her and she sighed. Shaking her head, Brandi winced and pleaded,“You can’t tell Mom and Dad.”
   Brooke nodded, but then that evil little gleam came into her eye. You know, the one she had when she wanted to blackmail me into setting her up with my best friend Kenny. Damn devious 14-year-olds.“I won’t tell,” Brooke promised, “if you do something for me.”
   Brandi looked defeated and just sighed,“Anything.”
   It was at this point that I noticed the flush in Brooke’s skin and saw that her jeans were unbuttoned. She must have been masturbating while watching us, and now I remembered how Brooke had looked while we listened to Brandi and her potential boyfriend Brian having phone sex. Just a little bit, I felt my cock stirring with new life. And then Brooke smiled and said, “I want you guys to teach me how to give a blowjob.”
   Brandi erupted,“What? Oh, HELL no. No, you’re too young!”
   Brooke frowned.“How old were YOU when you gave your first blowjob?”
   “I was too young,” Brandi insisted stubbornly. “I wasn’t ready and it was horrible experience.”
   “That’s why I’m asking YOU,” Brooke reasoned. “You guys can teach me the right way. Not with some fumbling in the backseat of a car when neither of us knows what we’re doing. Now I’m going to end up trying it one way or another, whether you help me or not. Wouldn’t it be better if you taught me first?”
   Brandi was out of breath, frantically looking around while her mind whirled, trying to figure out what to do. She seemed to completely forget that she was impaled on my cock, which had gotten back to half-hard with the sexual nature of our subject matter. With jaw quivering, our eldest sister sighed and nodded.“Okay, okay. You don’t rat us out and I’ll teach you. Let me go get my dildo.”
   Brooke pouted.“Why? Ben’s right here.”
   Brandi’s eyes flew open as she realized what Brooke was implying. “What? No! He’s your brother! That’s disgusting!”
   Brooke pointed right at our crotches, where in her twisting, Brandi’s skirt had ridden up and we could all clearly see that my rod was still buried in my older sister’s twat. “YOU don’t seem to find it so disgusting. And I don’t either. I think Ben’s very sexy.” And with that, I felt myself get to full hardness. The thought of Brooke sucking my dick was just too viscerally arousing to ignore.
   As if only now realizing what position we were in, Brandi quickly jumped off my lap, my stiff erection exiting her vagina with a wet squishing sound. And then Brandi stomped over to Brooke, grabbing the younger girl’s hand in her own and tugging her away. “No, no, no,” Brandi huffed.
   “Why?” Brooke pouted. “You just trying to keep him all to yourself?”
   “No! He’s not even mine. He has girlfriends. Two of them, remember?”
   Brooke shrugged.“He was having sex with you. So why not me?”
   “You’re TOO YOUNG,” Brandi insisted.
   “I’m fourteen!” Brooke exclaimed. “I’m old enough to have my period and old enough to have breasts and I’m old enough to be really, really horny!”
   “I made a mistake, Brooke. I committed incest. I crossed that line. And nothing I do can ever change that,” Brandi sighed. “But not you. You haven’t crossed the line. You’re still pure. Stay pure, Brooke.”
   Brooke folded her arms over her chest and turned to look pointedly at me, where I was still in a half-daze from shock and pleasure. My wet dick was still upright and bobbing in the air.
   “What if I don’t want to stay ‘pure’?” Brooke clearly had no internal moral conflict with ogling my naked body. “Looking at Ben like this gets me all squishy inside.”
   “For God’s sake, Ben. Put your shorts on!” Brandi yelled at me. And at the command tone in her voice I automatically moved to obey. Then Brandi whirled back to our younger sister. “You can’t do it to Ben, Brooke.”
   “Then I’ll rat you out to Mom and Dad,” Brooke glared coldly at her older sister, that evil glint back in her eye.
   “Whatever, I don’t care,” Brandi huffed. “I can’t change the mistakes of my past; but I can keep you from doing the same. Even if it means Mom and Dad finding out about me and Ben. C’mon, Brooke.”
   With that, Brandi grabbed the younger girl’s hand and started tugging her down the hallway. “You’re going to your room. And you’re gonna stay there. You’re grounded.”
   “What for?” Brooke whined. As eldest child, Brandi had been given some disciplinary privileges, although she rarely invoked them.
   “For trying to blackmail us.”
   Curious, I followed after the girls as they went to the stairs. Then, once they got to the upstairs landing, Brandi turned and gripped both of Brooke’s shoulders. “Listen to me carefully, Brooke. If you tell Mom and Dad about what me and Ben have done, it could really fuck up this family. They could send me away and never let me come home. They could send BEN away; because he’s a boy and they might worry he’ll do the same to you. You don’t want to ruin this family, do you?”
   Wide-eyed, Brooke shook her head‘no’.
   “Look, I can still teach you. I’ve got dildoes we can practice on and I’ll teach you everything you want to know. But not on Ben, okay? Not. On. Ben. That’s morally wrong.”
   “Why?”
   “Because it IS, okay?”
   Brooke pouted.“It’s not like I can get pregnant from giving him a blowjob.”
   Brandi sighed.“It’s not that. Blowjobs make you want to do other stuff, stuff that CAN get you pregnant. You’re not even on the pill, Brooke.”
   Brandi then glanced at me with a worried expression before turning back to face her little sister. Again she shook the younger girl’s shoulders. “I KNOW what’s going through your head. I was 14 once, too. Brooke, PROMISE me you won’t try to seduce Ben or do anything sexual with him. PROMISE me.”
   “But—”
   “No buts. PROMISE me.”
   Brooke grimaced, rolling her eyes.“FINE. I promise.”
   Brandi sighed with visible relief.“Now go to your room and stay there till Mom and Dad come home. You’re still grounded until then.”
   “But you said you’d teach me!”
   Brandi exhaled.“Let me talk to Ben first. I’ll bring you the dildoes and I’ll start teaching you today.”
   Blinking, Brooke nodded and then went into her own room, but not before giving me a significant look. This wasn’t over yet.* * *
   “I’m going to hell.”
   “We’re not even Christian, Brandi.” We were both sitting on Brandi’s bed, a place I’d been a few times recently in more intimate situations. This time, however, we were fully clothed and sitting a couple of feet apart.
   “I’m still going to hell,” my older sister moaned.
   “For what? For doing what makes you feel good?” I shrugged. I was still very horny from our coitus interruptus.
   “Ben, you don’t get it, do you? What we’re doing is wrong.”
   “I know, you told me,” I replied. I reached up and tapped her head. “Up here, right?”
   Then I reached for her left hip, wrapping my hand around to her ass and palmed her breast with my right hand.“But here… it feels so right, doesn’t it?”
   “Ben…” Brandi whimpered. “Don’t tempt me.”
   I swooped down so that my face was just half an inch away from hers, my lips puckered and ready. She was breathing hard and her eyes were wide as she stared back at me. I could feel the lust pouring off of her. But I didn’t kiss her. I didn’t want to force the issue. Yeah, I was a bastard for tempting her this far, but I wouldn’t take her by force.
   I didn’t need to. Brandi hesitated just another second before she leaped forward, planting her lips on mine and clutching my head tightly to her. Her kiss was just as passionate as ever, perhaps even fiercer as she was still fighting the internal conflict between her desires and her morals.
   But then a few seconds after she started kissing me, Brandi abruptly pulled away and scooted herself two feet down the bed to distance herself from me. She shuddered and looked at the floor.
   “Ben, I need you to promise me…” she said in a halting voice. “I know Brooke promised, but I can’t trust her. I know what it’s like to have these desires… to feel this lust. Please Ben, I desperately need to trust you. You once promised me that no matter what, you would always be my brother. That you would always love me. I need to believe that.”
   “I do. I love you, Brandi.” My eyebrows canted to the sides and I gave my sister the most honest and reassuring expression I could. I was still a little horny, but I recognized Brandi’s need for some more traditional family loving.
   “You can’t do anything with Brooke. She’s too young and if you fuck her brains out, you’re really gonna mess her up for other boys. Lord, if you did to her half the things you’ve done to me, she’d fall in love with you and never let you go.”
   “Whoa, whoa,” I held my hands up. “I’m not gonna.”
   “Promise me. Promise that you won’t do anything sexual with Brooke.”
   I shrugged,“Of course.” While I was turned on my an aroused female, period, Brooke wasn’t really a sexual creature to me. It was easy to think of Brandi as a sexy young woman. She was fully grown with nice tits and curves and all that, having developed long before me. I’d thought of my older sister asa sexual creature from the time I first thought about sex.
   But Brooke? Brooke was mylittle sister. I still remembered when she was completely flat-chested and child-like, which was NOT a turn-on for me. Only recently had she begun to develop, but even then I still had the mental image of a child in my head when I thought of her.
   On top of all that, while Brandi and I had progressed to a sexual relationship that was mutually satisfactory, we’d had to go through a lot of angst and tension to get to that point. It hadn’t been easy and it very nearly ruined our relationship. I wasn’t eager to attempt anything like that with Brooke.
   “Not ‘of course’, Ben,” Brandi said harshly. “Promise me.”
   “Okay. I promise,” I nodded agreement. “I won’t do anything sexual with Brooke. I’ve got perfectly good 16-year-olds to play with, without all the family complications.”
   Brandi sighed and visibly relaxed. But she also hunched over and looked ready to curl into a little ball. My older sister was still quite emotionally in shock over being caught committing incest by our younger sister, and she looked ready to collapse at any moment. So I quickly slid across the bed and wrapped her up in my arms, giving her a firm but brotherly hug.
   “I can’t do this anymore, Ben. I can’t have sex with you anymore,” she whimpered. “I want to. Oh, man, I sooo want to, but I can’t. I can’t handle it anymore.”
   “Shhh…” I soothed. “It’s okay. It’s okay. I love you, sis. No matter what. We don’t have to have sex for me to love you. I’ll always love you anyways.”
   We sat like that for a long few minutes while my older sister composed herself. My touch wasn’t sexual, but I did rub her back soothingly while she shivered and nuzzled her face against my chest.
   Then at last, Brandi had gathered herself and was able to sit upright. She stood before I could, sniffling slightly and wiping the moisture from her eyes. And then taking my head in her hands, she bent and gave me a soft peck to my forehead.
   It wasn’t an ordinary kiss. There was something symbolic in the way Brandi kissed my forehead. It was as if she’d reverted back to seeing me asjust a brother, without even a trace of the lust that used to fill her gaze.
   Perhaps ironically, once she’d done this platonic, sisterly act, Brandi immediately then dropped to her knees next to the bed and then started fishing underneath with her hand, coming back out with a small box. In it, she had a small collection of sex toys, and I arched my eyebrow at the handcuffs next to the personal lubricant, and at the monster 12-inch dildo.
   Brandi selected a more normal-sized pink dildo, which was shaped like a penis, complete with veins. And then Brandi stood up, frowning at me while sniffling away the last of her tears.“Go downstairs and watch TV or something, Ben.”
   I sighed and nodded. She wouldn’t be comfortable if she thought I was anywhere near her or Brooke’s bedroom right now. Standing up, something occurred to me purely out of honest thoughtfulness for Brandi, and I advised, “You should blow your nose first. You’re gonna need to breathe through it for this.”
   Brandi barked a short laugh, releasing some of the tension. And then I stepped outside.* * *
   Sunday felt like I had rewound my life back to that week after Christmas. Brandi kept to herself, not being obvious about it but avoiding me nonetheless. I had been secretly hoping that despite Brooke“catching” us, she and I would at least continue our sexual relationship until she flew back to college. She was just too accomplished and fantastic a lover for me to simply walk away from.
   But that was exactly what Brandi was doing: walking away. True, she couldn’t “un-cross” the line of incest, but at the moment, she had made the decision not to re-cross the line again.
   She wasn’t mean or rude. She simply kept her interaction with me to a bare minimum and didn’t say much to anyone else, either. It was as if she didn’t trust herself around me, and she didn’t want to tempt herself into taking things any further than she could handle.
   When I did interact with her, there were big bags under her eyes and she seemed especially haggard. She had little energy and obviously the trauma of getting caught, literally with our pants down, had shaken Brandi to a point from which she had not yet recovered. Mom even noticed and asked her what was wrong, but Brandi just complained of a hangover from visiting with friends.
   I didn’t push her. I gave my sister her space. I could only hope she came around before she left. I didn’t want us to part on bad terms of any kind, not after the intimacy we’d shared together. I just wished there was some way I could show her that I was there to support her. But every time I wanted to approach her and tell her such, she held up her hands and asked me to give her some time.
   Brooke on the other hand, was as normal as any other day. She chatted with me, got annoyed with me, and included me as a big brother without any hesitations or altered behavior. I wondered if that wasn’t the first time Brooke had spied on me and Brandi.
   At least she was back to completely normal…
   … or so I thought.* * *
   I felt something tickle my balls, and with a start, I jerked awake.
   “Mmph!” somebody groaned and as I sat up I realized I’d just shoved my dick an inch into my sister’s throat. She gagged slightly and then popped off to catch her breath. And then her bangs fell back and I got a good look at the girl’s face.
   “Brooke!” I hissed. “What the hell are you doing?”
   “Practicing!” And before I could react, my little sister ducked her head back down and wrapped her lips around my shaft, going lower and lower until she’d taken as much of me as she could, which still left a couple inches of my shaft exposed. And then Brooke began sucking and I groaned as I felt her licking at me like a popsicle.
   But then I remembered my promise to Brandi. And that memory also spiked my own protective concern for Brooke in matters of vice. She was only 14! She was WAY to young for this. Hell, I hadn’t even gotten to third base until I was 16!
   “Brooke, no,” I said in a commanding tone, which caused her to at least stop sucking, even if she didn’t remove her mouth from my dick. I reached down then and took hold of her head, gently tugging upwards until she popped free, a string of saliva still connecting her wet lips to my wet mushroom head.
   “Aww!” she protested and fought me for a second before finally relaxing. I quickly tucked myself back into my boxer shorts and pulled the blanket over me.
   “Brooke, you PROMISED Brandi. We can’t do this.”
   “Why not? It’s not like I can get pregnant,” she rehashed her previous rationalization.
   “That’s not the point. We just can’t, okay? It’ll mess up our brother-sister relationship.”
   “You did it with Brandi.”
   “She’s older. And it STILL messed up our relationship.” I sighed. “She’s not talking to me right now.”
   Brooke pouted and folded her arms over her chest, looking like she was developing another argument.
   “Look. If you’re so determined to start giving blowjobs and you’re POSITIVE you won’t have sex, why don’t you practice on your boyfriend… uh, Perry?”
   Brooke’s eyes opened up and she gave me a ‘well-duh’ expression as if I should’ve already known the answer. “Because I want to make sure I’m doing it RIGHT before I try it on him. I don’t want to mess it up. If I give him a bad blowjob, he might break up with me.”
   I rolled my eyes.“Believe me, Perry won’t care. He’ll just be thrilled you’re sucking him.”
   “Still,” Brooke continued pouting. “I want to do it right. Why won’t you help teach me?”
   “Because I’m your brother.”
   “That’s WHY you should be the one to teach me.”
   “About boys in general. About how to stay safe. And maybe TALKING about sex stuff. Not actually HAVING sex.”
   “Why not?”
   I sighed.“I don’t know. Because I feel… weird… about DOING anything with you. You’re just too young. You’re my kid sister! And because I promised Brandi.”
   “You also promised ME. Back when you didn’t want me to date Kenny Doyle. You promised ‘any favor’ at ‘any time’. This is my favor. Teach me, Ben.” And then Brooke opened her mouth and put on a sultry face, miming that she wanted to suck my dick.
   I groaned. Memories of my little sister as a pre-pubescent child or not, Brooke HAD grown up into a pretty well-developed 14-year-old, complete with pretty face, coltish body, and cute tits. The male in me reacted instinctively to an arousing female, and my cock was still hard. But I was TRYING to be a responsible young man.
   “C’mon, Ben. It’s just a blowjob. It’s not like I’m gonna fall in love with you or something.”
   “No, Brooke. Any favor but sex. I don’t think you’re old enough and I promised Brandi that I wouldn’t.”
   “But—”
   “No, Brooke. I’m not talking about this anymore. You’ve gotta go. Brandi already is upset with me and you being here is NOT going to help. Please? Look, I’ll answer your questions. I’ll even buy you a dildo once Brandi leaves and teach you or help you practice or something. But not on ME.”
   Brooke pouted.“FINE. Some brother you turned out to be,” she bitched as she got off the bed and turned away. “Can’t even keep his own promises.”
   Seconds later, Brooke stomped out the door. She didn’t even bother to close it all the way.
   I hadn’t realized how tense my entire body had gotten during that little exchange. As I flopped onto my back, I felt like every muscle in me was overtightened and it actually hurt to lie down. There was a crick in my neck and no matter what I did, I couldn’t quite stretch out my spine.
   I was so busy groaning and trying to relax myself that I never heard or saw the door swing open. I didn’t know I wasn’t alone until Brandi sat next to me on the bed.
   Without a word, she simply looked down at me and pulled the blanket back. Then reaching to my crotch, she slipped her hand inside my boxers and wrapped her fingers around my erection, which was still rock hard from Brooke’s blowjob and my own sexual anticipation.
   Brandi squeezed it twice, as if testing its hardness. She even glanced down to inspect my pee-hole. And then, still without speaking, my older sister got up and left.
   It had been a WEIRD Monday morning.* * *
   “Oh, FUCK, Ben! Are you still hard?” Cassidy moaned when my body automatically started pumping in and out of her saturate pussy in slow rhythm. I’d nutted into her not three minutes earlier, but rather than pull out, I’d stayed embedded and simply put my forehead down to the mattress while breathing heavily.
   Since I supported most of my weight on my elbows, Cassidy had been in no hurry to push me off her chest. She hugged me to her and enjoyed the intimate cuddle with her boyfriend, kissing my neck and rubbing my back while she felt my semen soak into her eggless womb.
   I was too busy trying to exorcise the demons from my head. I had machine-fucked Cassidy, pounding away at her with metronomic precision while my mind was elsewhere. I was going over all the mistakes I’d made in not restraining myself with Brandi. She was hot, she was sexy, and I’d wanted her body. I spent all my mental energy convincing her to just go with her lustful urges and that everything would be alright in the end. I just never stopped to consider how I might be irrevocably ruining my relationship with my older sister.
   But if I had the chance to do it all over, I probably would still opt for becoming intimate with Brandi. The sex had been amazing, but the way our relationship had changed for the better was also wonderful. She wasn’t the tyrant anymore. I wasn’t the ‘too-little’ brother anymore. We were both young adults and Brandi had treated me with respect as an equal for the entire time we’d been fucking. If we could just resolve her moral quagmire, we’d be fine.
   While I was lost in my mental ruminations, my body instinctively knew what to do. Once the post-ejaculate hyper-sensitivity went away, my prick realized it was embedded inside a warm, tight pussy, and slowly it sent the signals to make me pump in and out, delighting in the friction the motion produced. I wasn’t trying to fuck Cassidy again just yet, just casually using her pussy as a gentle masturbatory device to get a little pleasant, low-key stimulation.
   But my other girlfriend had other plans. Megan knelt on all fours beside us, bumping her hip against my side.“If you’re ready to go, Big Ben, I’ve got two lonely holes just waiting for your visit.”
   Megan’s words slowly filtered into my brain while I was gently screwing Cassidy. I actually had a delayed reaction before I turned my head and slowly pulled out, the redheaded teen beneath me whimpering as I exited her.
   “Come on, Ben. Fuck my little pussy. Drill me. And when you’re ready, I lubed up my asshole for you. I’m ready for you to fuck my ass again.”
   I felt my eyelids twitch as Megan’s words penetrated my brain. The raw lust in her voice cut through the fog in my head like a knife, and I pushed away my contemplative thoughts in favor of a visual observation of Megan’s nice body. Petite and slender, with gentle swells at her hips over nice legs. And my brunette girlfriend had a very cute ass which was wiggling in anticipation of my arrival.
   In fact, her ass looked similar to what Brooke’s ass might look like naked. And with that thought, a surge of adrenaline pumped into me and as my cockhead settled between Megan’s labial lips, I thrust forward and pierced her pussy with a single lunge.
   “Oh, fuck yeah!” Megan cried as she arched her back and felt me drive all the way into her vaginal depths.
   I blinked twice while hearing my girlfriend’s voice, and then I remembered that indeed, I was fucking my girlfriend and not my little sister. Shaking my head, I dismissed the momentary thought of Brooke and concentrated on the girl currently skewered on my shaft.
   I fucked Megan roughly, pumping and driving while letting the fingers of my right hand flutter over her clit. The brunette clenched her butt and bucked her hips, fucking me right back.
   Cassidy was whimpering and masturbating herself beside us, scooping out little globs of my semen inside her and using it as a lubricant, rubbing my cream into her own clit. And the sounds of the two girls moaning in ecstasy were all I needed to spur me on even harder.
   Megan came first, followed shortly by Cassidy. And I took that as my cue to switch holes. Ever since I’d first popped a finger up Megan’s ass, she’d loved that little extra sensation. But fingers were one thing. My thick cock was something else entirely, and even now I could see my girlfriend wincing in pain as she was stretched open wide. I thought about stopping, but I knew she could take it and Megan freely offered me her ass as an expression of love to me.
   Still, even as I watched my shaft disappearing into Megan’s bunghole, I briefly wondered what this would look like going up Brandi’s ass, parting her cheeks and squirting my juices deep into my sister’s rectum.
   I tried to regain my focus onto Megan, my loving girlfriend who was doing this solely for my pleasure. But I was too far gone into my lust. The fantasies of Brandi were simply too strong, and I couldn’t help but imagine I was reaming my sister out and pounded my cock through the tight ass harder and harder.
   “Oh, gawd, damn, Ben. Fuck me. Fuck me. Take my ass. Take it!”
   I took it. I took it hard. And presently I was grunting and growling and delirious with the sight of Megan’s body and the vision of Brandi and then I was there, cumming, blasting wad after wad of heavy cock cream into HER bowels.
   I was brought back to the present by the sound of Megan screaming. At first, I worried that she was in pain, but then I realized that her sphincter was clenching around my shaft and her hips were wriggling to get me DEEPER, not out of her. Megan was in the middle of a BIG orgasm.
   A pale arm was beneath my girlfriend, and I realized that Cassidy was actually fingering Megan and strumming her clit. And then all at once, Megan’s limbs gave way and we both fell heavily onto the bed, my weight pinning down my girlfriend while my cock was still fully embedded up her asshole, and we even trapped Cassidy’s hand beneath us.
   And then there was nothing left but the sound of three people panting. I rolled off of my girlfriend, lest I crush her. Her anus was a gaping hole, stretched wider than I’d ever seen. And Megan and I were both sweating like pigs.
   “Holy fuck…” Megan sighed. “I’ve never felt so completely FUCKED in my life!”
   “We’re all young, Megan,” Cassidy sighed. “We’ve got lots of time to try and top even that!”* * *
   I was a happily sated boy when I arrived for Monday night dinner with the family. I was in such a good mood from my orgasms that I barely even noticed how quiet Brandi still was. But I did notice. And before dinner was done, I’d gone out of my way to engage my older sister in conversation and frequently asked if she wanted a refill to her drink or for me to pass her any particular foods.
   Brooke, on the other hand, was giving me the cold shoulder. She was very blatant and obvious about it, and when mom asked what was going on, Brooke just snarked,“Ben is being mean to me.”
   The family left it at that. The last thing I wanted was for Brooke to explain that I was mean because I wouldn’t let her suck my dick.
   So I focused on trying to reconnect with Brandi. The last thing I wanted was to go through life withtwo sisters pretending I didn’t exist. And perhaps five minutes before the meal was done, I finally got through to my big sister. She put her hand on top of mine and said, “Hey Ben, let’s talk later, okay?”
   I beamed, thinking we’d finally turned the corner. After all, Brandi had given me the cold shoulder about three weeks before, and once we got to talking after that little stand-offish period, we ended up screwing each other’s lights out.
   And so I found myself sitting on my own bed, a few feet away from Brandi just to help prove I wasn’t a threat to suddenly attack her or try to rape her or anything. My older sister was still very quiet, and I gave her the extra time to compose herself before we started the conversation.
   “Ben, I want to thank you.” Brandi let her hand slide across the bed towards me, and eagerly I slid my own palm over hers, squeezing gently. “Thank you for keeping my faith in you.”
   I arched an eyebrow, not yet understanding.“Huh?”
   Brandi managed a little smile.“I… I’ve barely slept these past couple of nights. I kept imagining that Brooke had slipped into your room and the two of you were fucking like rabbits. I was horrified at myself for feeling turned on by it. And I was also horrified at the idea that it was somehow my fault that Brooke was crossing the line of incest.”
   “How could you be responsible?” I frowned. “Brooke is her own girl and she can make her own decisions.”
   “Because she told me, Ben,” Brandi sighed. “That afternoon when she had me teach her the basics of giving a blowjob with the dildo, she told me everything. A month ago, she caught me going into your bedroom one morning when she had to get up to pee. She peeked in through the doorway and watched me giving you a morning blowjob. Before that, she’d never considered doing anything sexual with you. She thought you were handsome, but you were just a brother to her.”
   My jaw dropped. How much had Brooke really been watching?
   “She caught us fucking another time. She actually watched you ejaculating your sperm into my pussy. She saw it all. And because I seemed to be having the most wonderful orgasms, Brooke started to fantasize about you doing the same things to her. So it IS my fault she’s even thinking of committing incest. If she’d never seen me doing it with you, she never would have thought of it herself.”
   I screwed up my face.“You don’t know that. I never learned from anyone but I started fantasizing about you as soon as you grew breasts.”
   “You’re a guy, Ben. Of course you drool over breasts.”
   I shrugged and Brandi sighed, squeezing my hand.“Ben, Brooke would have had sex with you if you wanted, pill or not. I know she certainly wanted to give you a blowjob. She told me so specifically after I showed her the basics. And when I reminded her of her promise not to try and seduce you or do anything sexual, she just shrugged like she didn’t even remember making the promise. I knew then that she was going to make a play for you. I know what it’s like to be 14 and horny.”
   Brandi took a deep breath.“I told you I haven’t been sleeping. I heard Brooke sneak out of her bedroom this morning and go into your room. I stayed in my bedroom, slumped to the floor with my ear to the door. I was already picturing her giving you a blowjob and you cumming in her little mouth. I was already picturing you taking her virginity and giving her the fucking of her young life.” Brandi quivered and moaned in arousal at the image, then immediately started crying with internal shame for her naughty thoughts.
   I had to admit, the idea made me hard, even though I knew I shouldn’t be thinking that way of Brooke.
   It took a minute, but Brandi composed herself. She sighed and then said with a happy little smile,“But you held up your end of the promise. Less than two minutes after she went in there, she came back out and stomped none too happily down the hall. Still, I had to check. So I went into your room and inspected your prick to make sure you hadn’t cum or put yourself inside her or anything.”
   I nodded, remembering how very strange it had been when Brandi walked into my room this morning.
   Brandi sighed again, and this time she slid herself over to me so that her hip was pressed to mine. Instinctively, my arms wrapped around her and she hugged herself against me.“You’re a good brother, Ben. Brooke isn’t ready yet. She’s still too young to understand what she’d be getting herself into. Hell, maybe I’m too young to really understand.”
   I nodded and stroked Brandi’s back.
   “I love you, Ben,” Brandi turned her head up to me with tears in her eyes. “I know I shouldn’t be with you this way, but I want to. It feels too good not to,” she pinched her forehead together wistfully.
   I smiled.“Me, too,” I said seriously as I pulled her even closer.
   It was so natural for our faces to come together, and then our lips mashed and Brandi sighed happily as we tenderly kissed. It wasn’t an ordinary kiss. It was a kiss of lovers, the kind of kiss we’d been sharing for the past few weeks. I felt a little thrill go through me as I realized that maybe, just maybe, my sister and I would find each other as lovers once again.
   The kiss went on for a few minutes, unhurried. We were exchanging more affection and love than lust, and by the time it was over, there were no more tears. Actually, the bags under her eyes already looked like they were clearing and there was a radiance in Brandi’s eyes as she looked at me.
   But then that light dimmed. She sighed and looked away, saying“I still think it’s wrong for us to be committing incest.”
   “That’s okay. I’ll still love you, sex or not,” I said reassuringly.
   “And you won’t do anything with Brooke?”
   “Nope. I promise.”
   “Good. I know I can trust that,” Brandi said in a weary voice as she got up to leave my bedroom. “And I think I can finally sleep now.”* * *
   Tuesday morning I woke up with my alarm clock. There were no sisters sneaking into my room to give me blowjobs, and I was almost disappointed. But I figured Brandi was still asleep and even if she never gave me another blowjob again, I didn’t begrudge her desire to resolve the moral conflict in her head.
   After all, I was getting a taste of the moral conflict myself. Brandi’s body wanted to be with me, but something in her head told her it was wrong. Now, my body was instinctively reacting to Brooke, even though my own head told me that she was too young and that it was wrong.
   I was disappointed Brandi wasn’t resuming our intimate relationship. But I wasn’t disappointed that Brooke hadn’t made a second attempt on me. I was just relieved. I didn’t want to deal with Brooke and the odd mix of emotions she stirred up in me: that weird combination of lust, guilt, and brotherly affection. I was afraid that if she came to me again, I’d end up rejecting her again and things would getreally bad between us.
   But Brooke was cheery and smiling as she poured herself a bowl of cereal. And she chatted inanely with me on the drive to school, just like any other day. It was as if she’d never wrapped her lips around my cock and we were able to proceed as if Monday morning had never happened. I had my sister back and if Brandi was feeling the same way about me today as she had last night, I would have both sisters back.
   And when I got home, the puffiness in Brandi’s eyes was gone and she gave me a casual hug in greeting. I was delighted and soon I realized that things had truly gotten back to normal. I went to play my video games, Brooke whined that I was hogging the TV, and she tried to manually power off the gaming console. But I was quick to yell and spanked her ass twice before she ran away covering her butt, giggling the whole while.
   Twenty minutes later, Brandi simply kicked me out so she could watch some entertainment newsmag.
   Yep, back to normal, back to the way things used to be when we were all just siblings and any notions of incest had yet to cross our minds.* * *
   Wednesday night, when I walked out after my shower wearing just a towel around my waist, I noticed that the light was still on in Brandi’s bedroom, a pale yellow glow peering underneath the door. It was midnight and I’d been expecting my sister to be catching up on lost sleep by now.
   Curious, I went and knocked on her door. Two seconds later came a slightly nervous voice saying,“Come in.”
   “Oh, it’s you,” Brandi said with some relief.
   I smiled as I poked my head in, but before I could say anything in response I saw that Brooke was sitting on the bed, one leg pulled up beneath her as the two sisters were obviously in the middle of a conversation.
   “You still awake?” I asked Brooke in a big-brotherly voice.
   My little sister shrugged and nodded her head to Brandi.“We needed to talk. It’s a girl thing, a sister thing.”
   Brandi nodded in confirmation and smiled serenely at me.
   Brooke continued,“And we’re talking about you.”
   My eyebrows went up.“Wait, what about me?”
   Brandi got up, took my shoulder, and guided me back out her bedroom door. With a pointed expression, she said,“Good night, Ben.”
   I could take a hint. Frowning, I said,“Good night ladies.” And then I went to bed.* * *
   Thursday, I was driving myself and Brooke home from school when she said out of the blue,“Ben, you don’t have to worry about me trying to seduce you or anything.”
   I jerked the wheel hard enough to make the Camry in the next lane honk his horn at me.
   Brooke gave a little grin when I glared at her and she just sighed.“I talked with Brandi. I think I understand the situation better, and I decided I don’t want to complicate things just yet. I HAD thought I could just practice blowjobs and other stuff, and that we’d just be normal otherwise. Puzzles, video games, whatever. But I think I realize now that we wouldn’t be able to be normal. Things have already gotten so weird between us. This sex stuff just… it changes people, doesn’t it?”
   “Completely,” I nodded. “You can never go back to the way things were before it.”
   Brooke nodded.“I don’t think I want to change our relationship just yet, Ben. I like you as a big brother right now. Don’t wanna mess with that.”
   “Good to hear,” I said with relief. I had enough complications in my life as it was.
   “But that doesn’t mean I can’t change my mind in the future,” Brooke said with amusement in her voice. And when I arched an eyebrow at her, she merely giggled and then looked out the window.* * *
   Thursday night, just past 11pm, I went into the hallway wearing nothing but a towel just after I heard the shower stop running. A few minutes later, Brandi stepped out with wet hair and her towel wrapped around her torso, tucked between her cleavage and just barely falling below her crotch.
   Not even bothering to appear surprised, I simply folded my arms over my chest, leaned against the wall, and openly ogled my sister’s nice body.
   Brandi rolled her eyes.“You’re such a pervert, Ben.”
   “That’s what Megan tells me.”
   “Well, she’s right.” Brandi strode out of the bathroom and calmly sashayed over to her bedroom. I turned and followed her with my eyes, and just before she closed the door, she turned her head sideways to see if I was looking.
   I was, and Brandi stood there for a long moment, breathing a little harder as she waged some internal war.“We’re not having sex again, Ben.”
   “I know, I know,” I nodded. “But can’t I just enjoy looking?”
   Brandi just let a little smile creep over her face and she nodded her acceptance. And then she just stood there for thirty seconds or so, letting me drink in her beauty.
   I sighed happily, and Brandi took that as her cue that I’d had my fill. She moved her hand to close the door and I prepared to turn away and take my own shower. But with an impish grin, she dropped the towel to the floor, flashing me a wonderful view of her naked back and exquisitely tight ass.
   Less than a second later, the door closed. But I allowed myself a happy smile.* * *
   On Friday night, Brandi started her shower just like always. And when she emerged from the bathroom, I was ready and in position, leaning against the wall, eager to perve on my sister.
   I knew we weren’t going to have sex again; Brandi had been quite clear on that point. I’d even already blown my load tonight, twice, on my date with Megan and Cassidy. But I certainly wouldn’t mind a few more peeks at my sister’s body, or whatever else she’d give me.
   After a few minutes, the bathroom door opened and Brandi waltzed out drying her hair with her towel, and the towel she was using to pat down her hair was her ONLY towel. She was otherwise buck naked and automatically my eyes went to her firm breasts and freshly-shaven pussy.
   “Hi, Ben,” Brandi flashed me a saucy smile. Her skin was flushed, and not just from hot water.
   “Whoa…” I exclaimed in a low voice.
   “Nothing you haven’t already seen before…” Brandi’s eyebrows went up teasingly.
   It wasn’t, but I still enjoyed the view. Her round tits were pulled high up with her posture and I drooled while looking at the dark nipples and small areolas, remembering what her breasts tasted like. And she even parted her legs to the side, opening up her pussy lips just enough to let me see some pink. The boner in my towel was very prominent by the time she finished with her hair.
   And then without another word, Brandi strode confidently to her bedroom. Just before she closed the door, she turned to flash me another view of her naked frontside. And then she winked at me.
   I stood in the hallway for a few extra minutes, my heart pounding and my dick obviously tenting my towel. I told myself that the situation was normal. I’d clearly shown a desire to ogle and Brandi had been willing to tease me, even back before we ever became intimate.
   I reminded myself that we weren’t going to become intimate again while I fought to get my breathing under control. Then I reminded myself again. And again… It wasn’t easy to do now that I had a fresh image of Brandi’s naked body in mind. It was especially difficult because I stillremembered what it was like to have sex with her.
   I fought the urge down. I knew I was more than just hormones strapped onto a conscienceless dick. I loved my sister, and the last thing I wanted to do was hurt her again.
   But I was still going to jerk off in the shower to fantasies of her.* * *
   Everything was quiet when I pulled up and parallel parked on the curb, just another lazy Saturday morning. I was returning home after dropping off the twins at a birthday party being held at the local mini-golf/climbing tower/arcade zone. I was assigned to return home and pick them back up in four hours.
   Mom and Dad had left to go for one of their golf outings together. It was only January 20th, still winter. But this was Orange County, and I think Dad just really wanted to go golfing in January so that he could brag to his work associates who lived in places like New York and Chicago that“Yeah, I went golfing this past Saturday.”
   There was no sign of my remaining two sisters when I walked into the house, and I headed upstairs for my bedroom. Just inside the door, I dropped my wallet and keys onto the desk and was turning around to go back downstairs when I saw that my room wasn’t empty. Brandi was reclining on my bed, wearing just a thin robe over her panties, and with no bra. Her eyes were locked onto my face while she dug her fingers inside her panties and rubbed herself.
   “Holy SHIT,” I stammered. Brandi was gorgeous, her hair pulled back to show off her pretty face and her robe parted to the sides far enough for me to clearly see both naked breasts, capped with erect nipples. My memory filled in all the flesh I couldn’t see, and even her pussy lips made obvious dents in her panties.
   “Hi, Ben…” my sister said in a slightly nervous voice. She turned onto one side, propping herself up on one elbow. She was tense, but there was no mistaking the lust in her eyes.
   “Brandi?” I asked in confusion even as my feet carried me towards her. “What’s going on?”
   Brandi quivered, her eyes drinking in my body while her left hand slid down to her own hip, the fingers dipping inwards to her pussy.“We’re going to have sex today, Ben,” she husked.
   My mind immediately went to the last time we tried to have sex.“Uh… where’s Brooke?” I queried.
   “At Jennifer Vo’s. I’m sure of it this time. I was there when Brooke called her to confirm. And besides… Brooke promised she would give us the time to do this without interruption.”
   I arched my eyebrow at the notion of Brooke giving me and her older sister time and space to fuck.
   Brandi took a deep breath and then fixed me with an intense stare.“We’re all alone, and I need you, Ben.”
   By now, I’d stepped next to the bed and Brandi reached up to take my hand. I stared down at her face, comfortably ignoring her body for the moment. “Not that I’m complaining, but what happened to ‘We’re not having sex anymore’?”
   Brandi sighed and tugged me down until I was sitting on the bed beside her. She pushed me so that I was slumped against the pillows and headboard, rolling onto her side so that she could put one hand on my chest.“I changed my mind. I changed a lot about the way I’m looking at this situation. And part of it was because of my conversation with Brooke.”
   “Brooke?”
   Brandi smiled and shook her head.“That girl can be so annoying. I’d tell her she couldn’t do something and she answered, ‘Why?’ Over and over again. ‘Why? Why? Why?’” Brandi’s voice took on a nasally, whining tone that got old really fast.
   “I realized I didn’t have any good answers. I’m not raping you. I’m not molesting you. I’m definitely not doing anything against your will. So nobody’s being hurt.” Brandi reasoned. “And I’m not a 14-year-old virgin. I’ve had sex before and I’ll have sex again with other people. I know you’re just a fling and I’m comfortable flying away to school and walking away from ‘us’. The two of us fucking isn’t really so different than me stripping for you: both get us aroused and make us feel good. It doesn’t really mean anything beyond that.”
   I tried to communicate with my eyes that becoming intimate with Brandi DID mean something to me. It certainly changed my relationship with my older sister.
   But Brandi just looked at me with lust.“And besides… I WANT to. I want to feel you inside me, Ben. I want to feel your cum spurting into me. The only things stopping us are my mental hang-ups, and I guess I just decided that I’m hanging myself up over nothing.”
   Brandi leaned in and husked straight into my ear.“I WANT you, Ben.” And then she licked my ear before moving lower and nuzzling her nose against my neck. It felt sooo erotic and I felt my skin begin to tingle.
   My body was getting ready, but my brain had not yet caught up. True, Brandi had been progressively moving back in this direction with her little flashes and strip-teases of the past couple nights, but I really had thought she would stick to her no-sex boundary.“Are you sure you want to do this? Brandi, I care about you. And I really don’t want to make you do anything you’re going to regret.”
   Brandi sighed and brought her wet fingers out of her own crotch, popping the tips into her own mouth as her eyes fixed on me.“You’re sweet, Ben. But the only thing I would regret would be flying back to school having NOT fucked you again before I left. The last time we were together, Brooke interrupted us. I want to feel you thrusting in me, Ben. I want to feel your semen pouring into my body. I can’t help it. I’m totally hot for you.”
   “But… What happened to ‘wrong’?” I pointed to my own head.
   She took my hand and placed it onto her bare breast.“There’s nothing left but ‘right’.” And then she kissed me.
   Any further arguments flew out of my head when she kissed me. Pleasure endorphins shot into my brain, washing all doubt away in a flood of happiness. And all my built-up longing for Brandi from the past week exploded inside me as I urgently wrapped her up in my arms, pulling her tightly against me while I kissed back so hard that I was sure I’d bruise her lips.
   When we finally broke for air, I looked deep into my sister’s eyes, seeing her excitement and lust, without a trace of hesitation. My hands went to pull her robe off her shoulders while hers went to the fasteners of my jeans. I looked up and asked, “How long do we have?”
   “What time do you need to pick up the twins?”
   “Uh, about three-and-a-half hours.”
   Brandi grinned.“Then we’ve got 3 hours and 29 minutes.”* * *
   We finally separated at around 3 hours and 35 minutes. Yeah, I was late, but the twins would live. Both Brandi and I knew that this was our last time together for the Winter Break, and possibly forever depending on how much we changed over the next few months.
   We’d both gotten in the habit of getting regular orgasms for the past few weeks. I’d at least still had my girlfriends for sexual release, but Brandi had been limited to masturbation since last Saturday. And once we both understood that fucking was back on the menu, my sister was ravenous for my cock to be inside her. We didn’t even wait to get all our clothes off. Brandi got my shorts around my knees and I shoved her wet panties to the side, and then one powerful thrust later I was once again buried to my pubes in my sister’s twat.
   “Oh, Ben! Fuck me, little brother! Fuck me and fill me up with your cum!”
   That first fucking only lasted about five minutes before we both came. She’d been fingering herself for a good ten minutes while I dropped off the twins; and she’d already been on the edge of orgasm. Once Brandi came, the feeling of her spasming pussy muscles pulled me over that edge with her so that I splashed her innards with incestuous sperm.
   We rested for fifteen minutes after the hard and fast quickie. We took our time to remove the rest of our clothing before cuddling naked. She talked about how much she would miss me and lamented about how we’d waited to long to become closer as siblings.
   Eventually, her soft caresses on my dick started to get a new rise out of me, and my older sister bent over to swallow my dick and bring me back to a full erection. That second time, Brandi rode my cock while draping her tits over my face so that I could suckle at her nipples.
   “Mmm… so tasty,” I growled around one boob. “I’d love to see these puppies filled up with milk. What do you think, Brandi? Would you like to see me suckling on this one whileour baby drank from the other because I’d knocked you up?”
   “Ohhh!” Brandi groaned.
   “You like that? You want to feel your brother’s sperm worming their way into your womb to make a baby? You wanna feel that?”
   “FUCK!” Brandi jerked and promptly came, her back arching while her hips swiveled around my cock.
   When she was done, she stopped moving and panted heavily, her eyes unfocused for a bit before she was able to blink and start calming down. And then without warning, she reached out and slapped my cheek.
   “Oww!” I exclaimed and held my cheek.
   “Impregnating me,” Brandi scoffed.
   “Admit it,” I teased. “The idea turned you on.”
   Brandi grinned and then I rolled her over onto her back so I could give her another injection of cock cream, whispering about how my sperm were going to swim through her uterus to her fallopian tubes in search of an egg.
   “Do it! Do it!” My sister urged. “CUM IN ME!”
   With a grin, I did just that, blasting my incestuous sperm into the back of her womb. And after I filled her up to overflowing, the two of us cuddled and giggled at the naughtiness of our illicit thoughts.
   We paused to take a shower and clean ourselves up. I happily soaped up my sister’s private parts while I ground my third erection into the crack of her ass. Brandi moaned and complained, wondering why we never showered together this BEFORE when we had all those nights alone, instead of taking showers in turn.
   We didn’t screw in the shower, however. We broke for lunch and then Brandi hoisted herself onto the kitchen counter again, eating a sandwich while I bent over eating her pussy, not stopping until she’d finished her sandwich and also had two orgasms along the way. And then we couldn’t resist fucking on the dining room table, just to see what it would be like.
   Like Cassidy before, Brandi felt uncomfortable on the hard, unyielding wood. But her pussy was still tight and I was having no problems. So even though my sister didn’t orgasm that round, I was able to blast her with my third cumload of the day.
   We spent another hour in her bed, just talking. I spooned behind my sister while she told me about her upcoming class schedule and what life was like at college. I couldn’t wait to see if the parties were really as wild as I dreamed.
   And then to cap off our day together, we moved into a missionary position and I slowly made love to my sister, undulating my hips gently while she held me with all four limbs and tried to pull me even closer.
   We’d been kissing for a few minutes when Brandi pulled her head back and leaned it into the pillow while pulling my face down to her neck. Her hips rocked slowly, stimulating my prick without pushing me towards orgasm. And then she said softly, “Ben, I think I know the answer but I just need to hear it again. Will you always love me, no matter what?”
   I paused from my thrusting to slowly rotate my crotch, keeping my face directly over Brandi’s. “Of course.”
   Brandi chuckled.“Not ‘of course’, Ben.”
   I smiled.“Yes. I will always love you. You’re my sister, and nothing can ever change that.”
   “Even if we are never intimate again after today?”
   I sighed.“I’d be lying if I said I wouldn’t be disappointed. You are amazing in bed, Brandi. But yes, I’ll always love you, no matter what. If we never have sex again, if you never streak in front of me again, if we go right back to being just platonic brother and sister, I will always love you.”
   “Good to know you’d still love me even if we stopped fucking,” Brandi leaned up and kissed me tenderly.
   She broke for air and then looked up at me with a smile.“But don’t plan on stopping.”* * *
   The next day I was assigned taxi duty. I didn’t mind and immediately jumped to help Brandi with her luggage.
   “You seem to be getting along much better with your sister,” Mom commented.
   I blushed for a moment. If only Mom knew just howmuch better Brandi and I got along.“Yeah, I think college mellowed her out.”
   Brandi snorted.“Little twerp just grew up.”
   We both smiled while our mom looked on cluelessly.
   On the drive to the airport, there was no sexual tension between us. We’d sated our lust and I found that I was just going to miss my sister’s presence, not necessarily her body (although I would miss that, too). We chatted about nothing the whole way, and the closer we got to the airport, the more excited Brandi became.
   “You happy to be heading back?” I asked.
   “Yeah, I miss my friends. And believe it or not, I’m kinda looking forward to going back to class. I was starting to get a little bored.”
   “What? Bored of me?” I teased.
   “No,” Brandi giggled and hit my shoulder.
   “Excited to see Brian?” I ventured. “He IS riding with Dayna to meet you, isn’t he?”
   “Holy shit! I forgot about that!” Brandi smacked her forehead.
   “You DID say he was gonna get lucky tonight,” I smiled without jealousy. I never harbored any thoughts that my sister would be exclusive to each other. What we did was a form of mutual masturbation and affection, not ownership.
   The corners of Brandi’s lips went up. “Well, maybe not tonight. I only told him that because I thought I was going to be horny for four weeks straight. But YOU, little brother, took care of that department quite nicely. I’m not sure if I’m ever going to sleep with him and even if I do someday, he’s gonna haveto do a damn good job not to be disappointing after the number you did on me.”
   I grinned.“Well, if you ever get antsy again, you know where I live.”
   Brandi smiled right back.
   Fifteen minutes later, I walked my sister up to her gate and waited with her until boarding time. As we heard the announcement over the PA, I turned to my sister while she turned to me, and our eyes met with little twinkles of their own.
   What came next was automatic. I sincerely hope that no one we knew was around, because I leaned in, brushed Brandi’s bangs to the side, and gave her a VERY un-brotherly kiss goodbye.
   When I pulled away, she smiled radiantly at me and said,“See ya later, alligator.”
   Chapter 11: TemptressFEBRUARY 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Hmph, hmph, hmph! Oh, Ben… fuck me, Ben… Umph! Hmph, hmph, hmph!”
   I let my fingers trace along the bumpy ridges of Cassidy’s spine as she faced away from me. Her naked back was so soft beneath my hands, her pale white skin both creamy and damp from her own sweat. She was bouncing up and down in my lap, and I let my gaze drop to see her cute buttcheeks raising and lowering around the thick column of my dick.
   She was getting close. I could always tell when Cassidy was getting close because her breathing took on a very short, staccato pattern. And from the way her breathing was ramping up, I figured the redhead would be having a VERY good orgasm.
   I wished I could take credit for it, but it wasn’t all me. Sure, my cock was splitting her pussy, but most of my girlfriend’s stimulation had to be from my other girlfriend. Megan was fingering Cassidy’s pussy for the first time, helping along. And unlike kissing or anything else I’d suggested revolving around typical male fantasies, once Cassidy started moaning under Megan’s dextrous fingers, I knew this wasn’t something the girls would easily dismiss.
   “Oh, fuck! Fuck! I’m cumming! I’m cumming!” the 16-year-old redhead screamed.
   I decided to play naughty right about then, licking my index finger to get it good and coated. And when Cassidy hunched forward as her stomach muscles contracted in orgasm, I slid the finger into my girlfriend’s ass.
   Cassidy went nuts… in a GOOD way. Her screaming picked up another octave and she threw her head back in surprise. And I felt her reaction inwards as her pussy clamped down on me so forcefully that it was actually a little painful to my sensitive rod.
   A minute later, Cassidy was slumped forward while still sitting on my cock, wheezing for oxygen as her entire torso raised up and down with each breath.“I’m such a naughty slut,” she sighed. “Now I’m loving it when my boyfriend sticks a finger in my ass.”
   “You think you’re a naughty slut?” Megan giggled. “I was such a buttoned-down, model Asian daughter. I took piano lessons, got straight-A’s, and never made my parents worry.” Megan swiveled her eyes to me. “Now I’m a sex maniac who takes my boyfriend’s DICK up my ass. And to top it all off, now I’m rubbing my own best friend’s clit to orgasm.”
   “Did a GREAT job of it, too,” Cassidy grinned, pulling Megan to her and giving her a quick peck on the lips.
   Both girls giggled and then Cassidy turned her head to see the expected goofy expression on my face.“Don’t get any ideas, Ben. I’ve no interest in going down on her or french kissing.”
   “Absolutely not.” Megan giggled again. “But in the future… who knows?”* * *
   Mondays were great. Scratch that, Mondays were FANTASTIC. I loved Mondays. But I HATED Tuesdays. That meant I had to wait all the way until Friday to get laid again, and even that was usually within the cramped confines of a car. Occasionally, we’d find a secluded spot in the foothills and spread out a blanket, but it got pretty cold at night, even in Orange County.
   I was still holding out hope for the occasional mid-week romp at Cassidy’s place. The girls HAD said there would be a few. But the girls had been sticking to their twice a week schedule to focus on their grades, and I didn’t want to push them. Besides, the long layoffs made their sexual urgency that much greater when we did get together.
   But I’d gotten spoiled by Brandi. My sister wasn’t home anymore to take the edge off those midweek droughts, and usually by Thursday I would start to get just a bit cranky.
   It was on one of those Thursdays when Adrienne Dennis first propositioned me.
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came the sultry, sweet voice from my left. I glanced over to see Adrienne sashaying along the hallway towards me, curving her walking path to intercept me ten feet ahead. As usual, her spray-painted jeans left no doubt she had a top-shelf ass. The quarter-sleeve V-necked top was skintight, and only a white undershirt prevented the V-neck from being obscene. As it was, her cleavage was merely offensive to conservative women the world over.
   My eyes did their yo-yo thing down to Adrienne’s tits and then back up to her face. She was used to it and waited for me to smile and reply, “Hey, Adrienne.”
   “Where’re you headed?” She asked, seeming to be genuinely interested.
   “Chemistry. You?”
   “French.” Adrienne giggled. “Speaking of which, word is that you’re quite the french kisser.”
   I blushed but quickly picked my head back up.“And who’s been telling you that?”
   “Girls talk. And kissing is not the only thing we talk about.” Adrienne’s smile turned just a bit predatory. “How do you keep up with two girls, Ben? I’d thought you were joking when you first told me. But then there’s no denying the evidence. The three of you have been a hot topic these past couple of weeks.”
   I shrugged.“I may have learned a thing or two about pleasing women.”
   Adrienne slowed down and latched onto my arm.“Think you could give Jake a few pointers?”
   When I looked into her soft hazel eyes, she actually looked serious. And then twinkle came into those irises as the corners of her mouth turned upwards.“Or maybe,” Adrienne husked. “You could just show me in person.”
   I blinked twice rapidly and felt both aroused and frightened at the same time. My mouth went dry, my hands felt clammy, and my shorts felt suddenly tight. I choked out a breath and then backed up, her hand still holding onto my arm.“Stop teasing, Adrienne,” I said grimly.
   “What if I’m not teasing, Ben?” She stepped back into my personal space, boring her gaze deep into the back of my skull.
   “I’m taken. I’ve got TWO girls. Why would I want to mess that up?”
   “Because even two girls don’t add up to one of me,” Adrienne nodded her head up and down slowly, pure seduction on her face. She leaned forward as if to kiss me but then stopped halfway, her lips parted as if ready to devour me. But she stopped herself. “Just think about it. Okay?”
   I gulped and fought down the urge to press my lips to hers and help Adrienne practice her French. Fortunately, she backed away before my resolve gave out, and with an impish giggle, the stunningly gorgeous blonde turned away and hopped off towards her next class.
   I watched her tight ass as she sashayed away, then let out a long exhalation, my shoulders finally relaxing. I turned about and then jerked back in shock as I came face to face with an angry-looking redhead.
   “Ben… What was that about?” Cassidy glared right at me, her emerald eyes a dark, piercing green.
   “Nothing, nothing, Freckles,” I shook my head.
   Cassidy just tilted her head to the side and glared even harder at me.
   I sighed.“Adrienne’s just being a tease. You know how she gets. I guess she’s decided to get some amusement by flirting with me. You know, get a kick out of seducing the guy with two girlfriends.”
   Cassidy narrowed her eyes and ground her teeth together. I’d seen the Irish girl’s temper from time to time and I recognized the beginnings of an eruption.
   “But hey, hey,” I patted my girlfriend’s arm. “Relax. I’m smarter than that. Adrienne can tease all she wants but I know a good thing when I’ve got it. I love you and Megan and I’d never do anything to jeopardize that.”
   Cassidy immediately broke into a smile and I gave myself a pat on the back for that mini-speech. And then my girlfriend opened her arms and we came together in a tight hug before the she grabbed my head and kissed me firmly.“Don’t you forget it, buster.”
   I just smiled and kissed her again. I couldn’t WAIT for tomorrow.* * *
   “Ben! We need your opinion!” Eden simply grabbed my hand and yanked me out of my seat.
   “But!” I protested as I was pulled away from the kitchen table and my breakfast. The eggs were still steaming and the bacon smelled SO good. The smell of Mom’s cooking had been what woke me up early on this Saturday morning.
   Eden ignored my protests and walked me down the hall to the twins’ bedroom. “We need you to help pick out our outfits.”
   “Wha—?” My stomach was still growling. “Why me?”
   “Because you’re a GUY, Ben. And Brooke says you’ve got good taste.”
   “Huh?” I didn’t know women’s fashion at ALL. Why would I? I was just a teenager. I liked girls naked or half-naked, that was the extent of my fashion sense.
   “We’re going to Vicky Tan’s birthday party. There’s gonna be some boys there and we want to look good.”
   “Boys? Aren’t you too young for boys?” As I was saying this, Eden led me into the bedroom to where both Emma and Brooke were waiting for us.
   “Are not! We’re eleven!” Emma protested.
   “Okay, okay,” I held my hands up in defeat. Then I sighed as Eden went to stand beside Emma, the two of them wearing very different outfits. Eden was in blue, with a modest skirt and darker blue baby-T-shirt. Emma wore blue jeans and a tight pink halter-top that showed just a hint of a bosom, the girls just starting to grow puffies, but not yet actual breasts.
   “Which one is better?” Emma asked.
   I sighed and looked to Brooke, who just waved me back towards the twins. I already knew that the girls had two of everything. Whichever one they chose, they’d both end up wearing. Shrugging, I asked, “Where are you guys going? Bowling? Skating?”
   “Nowhere. It’s just a picnic,” Eden replied.
   “Jungle gym? Frisbee?” I scratched my head and the girls nodded.
   “Go with the jeans. Easier to run around in and you don’t have to worry about boys trying to peek up your skirts.”
   Emma made a face.“Eww! Why would they want to do that?”
   “Nevermind,” I sighed. “Besides, you two look cute in those tops.”
   Emma turned to Eden and stuck her tongue out.“Told you so.”
   Eden rolled her eyes but nodded.“Thanks Ben.”
   “Anytime,” I replied automatically while turning around. Then I tensed, “Wait, wait. I didn’t mean that.”
   “Too late!” Eden chirped. “You already said ‘anytime’!”
   I sighed the sigh of great sorrow. Why had the universe cursed me to be the only boy amongst four sisters?
   My stomach growled. Okay, my food was getting cold.* * *
   I’d just finished my breakfast and was heading back to my room when the phone rang. I didn’t think much of it until Mom poked her head into the family room where I was watching TV. “Ben?”
   “Yeah, mom?”
   “Miss McNeil called. She’s got a pipe leaking in her bathroom all over her floor. Can you take a look first? She shouldn’t have to call a plumber unless absolutely necessary.”
   “Doesn’t her new boyfriend do all the handywork now?”
   “He’s out of town. And hey, didn’t you fix a leak for her last year?”
   My memory flitted back and then it hit me. The last time Keira McNeil claimed to have a leaky pipe was the first time we had sex. It was the time I’d lost my virginity. “Uh, yeah Mom.”
   “Hm. Thought so. I better not find out you did a shoddy job that needs repair.”
   I smiled to myself.“No, Miss McNeil was quite happy with my work that day.”
   Mom caught something in my tone, but I quickly schooled my face.“I’m going, I’m going.” I went to the garage to get the tool box and then started off for our neighbor’s house.
   Purely by coincidence, I hit the sidewalk just as I heard thumping footsteps approaching. I turned to see a figure jogging up and my eyes automatically dropped to her bouncing bosom, the big tits just barely contained within a sports bra that pressed her cleavage together and formed a thin crevasse. Her stomach was taut and lightly muscled, her hips narrow and firm within black lycra shorts, and her thighs were without a trace of fat. She was, in a word, HOT.
   And a wide smile crossed Adrienne’s face when she recognized me. “Hey, Ben,” she huffed as she jogged up and then slowed down beside me while I continued my short walk to Keira McNeil’s house. She still kept bouncing, jogging in place with more of an up and down motion that just made her big tits even more enrapturing.
   “Uh, hi, Adrienne,” I stammered trying not to stare at her tits. Then I gathered myself and looked forward while standing up straighter. “Morning run?”
   “Yeah. Every Saturday,” she sighed. “It takes a lot of work to keep my ass looking like this.”
   With that, she jogged forward just a bit and of course, my gaze went straight down to her perky buttcheeks, clearly defined in the skintight lycra.“It IS a gorgeous ass,” I agreed.
   “Thank you!” Adrienne chirped. “More home repair for Miss McNeil?”
   I nodded.“Leaking pipe.”
   “I’ll bet…” Adrienne husked with more than a trace of innuendo in her voice. Her eyebrows popped and her hazel eyes glittered at me for a moment.
   I frowned. Adrienne couldn’t possibly know, could she? Nah, she was just teasing, like she always did. And I wasn’t going to give anything away.
   After I was silent for a moment, Adrienne changed gears and the moved in, putting a hand on my chest.“So Ben… have you given any more thought to my proposal?”
   “Pro-proposal?” I stammered.
   Adrienne grinned and punched my chest lightly.“You know… To show me what I’m missing out on… Those… skills… you have at pleasing a woman?” By the time her sentence was finished, she had leaned in so that her lips were just an inch away from mine.
   Fortunately, the walk to Keira’s was quite short and we’d already arrived, standing just outside her walkway. “Yeah well, I’ll have to get back to you on that, Adrienne,” I stammered nervously and started backing away. “I’m gonna get to work. I’ll see you Monday.”
   Adrienne grinned.“Bye, Ben.” She turned to jog off, but not before pausing to shimmy her beautiful butt at me.
   I sighed at the mild arousal, but I pushed my emotions aside.‘Focus, Ben. You’ve got two hot girlfriends who love to screw your brains out. Don’t do anything stupid.’
   I focused. I had a job to do. I had a leaky pipe to fix.
   But then I remembered Keira’s last “leaky pipe”. And I couldn’t help but groan as the hormones coursed through my entire body.* * *
   The door swung open and there she was, the first woman of my life. Keira was just as beautiful as ever, her dark hair pulled back and pinned up which showed off her pretty face. And her light green eyes danced as she saw me.“Hi, Ben.” You couldhear the smile in her voice.
   “Hello, Keira,” I said warmly.
   “Have you gotten taller?”
   I grinned, happy that she noticed.“5’11” and a quarter.” While my growth spurt had certainly slowed, I was still creeping upwards an eighth of an inch at a time. Automatically, we came together for a hug, but I made no move to kiss her. Belatedly, however, I realized that I was pressing my erection into her pelvis and I quickly backed away.
   “Oh, sorry,” I stammered.
   “I still have that effect on you?” Keira blushed.
   “Uh, apparently,” I hedged. I wasn’t sure if I’d gotten hard because of Adrienne, with her skimpy jogging outfit and her proposal for sex, or from Keira, with her grown-up beauty and the memory of “plugging her leak”. Probably a little of both.
   “Well, put it away,” Keira teased, referring to my cock. Then she invited me in with a sweep of her arm. “As much as I would love to rehash old times, I’m a taken woman now. And I really do have a pipe leaking.”
   “Well, you know how good I am at plugging,” I grinned, not able to help myself given how aroused I currently felt.
   Keira giggled and put a hand over her mouth.“I remember your ‘plugging’ very well, Ben.”
   “And I’m pretty sure I’ve gotten even better since we were last together.” I said with a touch of pride in my voice.
   The beautiful brunette sighed with a wistful smile on her face, looking at me intently.“Maybe you’ll show me someday. But not today, Ben. Not today.”
   Keira really did have a leaking pipe. When I got to her master bathroom there was a puddle of water leaking out from the sink cabinet and onto the tile. But the puddle wasn’t very large and didn’t seem to be growing at all.
   I tested my theory by going to the faucet and turning it on. Sure enough, a few seconds later the puddle began to grow. And when I turned the faucet back off, the puddle stopped its forward motion.
   “It’s definitely in the drain assembly. Let’s mop this up and then I’ll check it out. Shouldn’t be too difficult.”
   Ten minutes later, we got everything dried up and I found that there was a crack in the T-junction feeding the sink drain into the wall. Keira was fortunate that the leak was inside the bathroom, and not in the walls where it would have just collected and molded before anyone realized it. I would have to move the cabinet aside, cut open the wall, remove the current T-junction, and then patch everything back together. It wasn’t overly difficult, but it would take the better part of a day. And I had to drive to Home Depot to get the parts.
   Keira sighed when I explained all this to her, but she grinned happily when I told her I could do it myself without having to get a plumber.“I’ll still pay you as much as I would a plumber, Ben. You deserve it.”
   “Thanks. Having two girlfriends can get really expensive,” I drawled. Then an idea hit me and I smiled. “Or, I would just take a blowjob as payment.”
   Keira barked a laugh. We both knew I was joking. But then she sighed and looked longingly at my crotch.“Don’t tease me, Ben.”* * *
   Keira fed me lunch and we chatted during my breaks, catching up on all the things that had been going on in our lives. I’d seen very little of her since last summer, and there was a lot to say.
   Stuart was still a workaholic, which was fine with Keira since she’d long learned to be independent and live her daily life without a man in it. They went on regular dates every week, but only met mid-week as needed. That sounded familiar to me and I easily explained my arrangement with Megan and Cassidy, ranging from our wonderful Monday fucking and studying sessions to our Friday forays into dating and romance.
   Keira and Stuart still kept things pretty casual in that there were no discussions about moving in together or settling down. Right now, they filled a void in each other’s lives for occasional companionship and romance without intruding into their individual plans for the future. Keira did tell me, however, that Stuart was a bit of an “old dog” in bed, unwilling to really learn new tricks. Selfishly, I hoped they would eventually tire of each other so that Keira would start fucking me again. I’d show her I was still willing to learn.
   And I even told Keira about my relationship with Brandi. I instinctively knew she wouldn’t become judgmental, which she didn’t. She just listened and let me pour out all my conflicting emotions and guilt, and when I was done I felt as if a great weight had been lifted off my chest.
   And then Keira confided something to me that she hadn’t told anyone else. She’d started thinking about trying again for a real family. She’d just barely turned twenty-nine and had several more years to have children, so she wasn’t in a rush. But she felt she had grieved enough for Colin and that it was time for her to re-start her life.
   “Don’t tell anyone, but I don’t think Stuart is that kind of man for me. He’s not the family-man type. And while I don’t think I’m too old, I am running out of time, Ben. If I want a child by, say, 32, then I’d need to be pregnant around 31, which means I’ve only got two more years or so to find a man and fall in love enough to get married, and then get knocked up.”
   “I’d be happy to help you practice,” I grinned.
   Keira chuckled.“I’m sure you would.” She sighed. “I really like Stuart. He’s a wonderful companion and he’s a decent man. He’s just not the type to settle down and raise children with. So unfortunately, I don’t think he’s going to last much longer.”
   Feeling my hormones, I put my hand on her creamy thigh.“Does that mean you two aren’t so serious anymore?”
   “Don’t, Ben,” Keira firmly moved my hand away. “I’m still in a committed relationship.”
   “Okay, okay,” I backed off. And then I said sincerely, “Just know that I’ll always want you.”
   Keira sighed as her skin flushed with arousal.“Oh, Ben. Why couldn’t you be ten years older?”* * *
   Between Adrienne’s tease and just being around Keira for an entire day, I was feeling pretty wound up with horniness. It was a state of anxiousness that stayed with me through all of Sunday, keeping me just a bit jittery even though it was supposed to be a day of relaxation.
   On Monday, I got to let out my pent-up frustrations.
   “Fuck me! Harder! Oh, fuck! Deeper, Ben! Deeper! Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Oh… no! Dammit! Come back here!” Megan whined as my cock slipped out of her.
   “Be right back, honey,” I grinned as I slid two feet to the right and sank myself back into Cassidy’s pussy. The two girls were kneeling side-by-side, their arms crossing to rub each other’s clits while I switched back and forth, fucking my girlfriends from behind.
   We played roulette-sex for another few minutes before Megan won out. Cassidy had been learning but Megan was by far the more sexually advanced of the two, and the petite brunette teen knew just how to squeeze her inner muscles to finish me off inside her.
   “Yes! Yes! Cum in me, Ben!” Megan crooned.
   Afterwards, Cassidy suggested that we all take a shower together. Megan just popped her head up and cheered,“Ooh! Shower sex!”
   Giggling, we hopped over to the Master Bathroom to use Cassidy’s parents’ shower, which was big enough to hold all three of us. Happily, I got to be the meat in the sandwich. There are few things in this world more exciting than wrapping your arms around two wet, giggly teenagers and soaping up their breasts.
   Tweaking nipples and rubbing clits soon got both girls quite aroused. Their moans of arousal were plenty enough to get me aroused. This of course led to having sex in a shower. At first, the girls wanted to experiment with rear entry while standing up, and I bent Megan forward while trying to slip my dick into her from behind.
   The problem was, Megan was much shorter than me and while I tried to crouch down, the angles just didn’t work at all. We actually got frustrated enough that Megan had to turn around and suck me to get me hard again for another attempt, after which she just gave up.
   I wouldn’t have it so I just spun my girlfriend around, picked her up in my arms with a burst of adrenaline, and slowly sank her light body down around my rod. She was wet enough and loosened up from our prior fucking to slowly get me inside her, despite the shower water washing away her natural lubrication. But then my arms started to tire and I had to lean her against the cold porcelain wall in order to get any leverage to actually fuck her.
   It was awkward and uncomfortable, and we both gave up after a few minutes, me finally resigning myself to sitting down on the shower bench and letting Megan do all the work, and she finally brought herself off to a small climax.
   Standing up again, Cassidy was teasing us for not being able to get the heights worked out. I got annoyed and then spun the taller redhead around, bending Cassidy’s body forward, kicking her legs to the sides, and then dipping to bring my dick up and into line with her pussy.
   Megan had her hand in Cassidy’s crotch by now, rubbing her best friend’s clit before taking my cockhead into hand and guiding it into Cassidy’s folds while the three of us were still standing, and this time I was able to push inside a tight, wet pussy.
   “Oh, FUCK, Ben…” Cassidy sighed as I buried myself in to the hilt. Even though she was about three inches shorter than me, with just a little bit of flex in my legs I was able to comfortably thrust in and out of her.
   And as Megan moved over and pulled my face down for a kiss while continuing to rub her friend’s pussy, I thought over how wonderful my relationships were with these girls. We began as platonic friends, getting to know one another on deeply personal levels and meeting each other’s families. And now we were like friends with benefits, both girls exploring and experimenting with their sexuality, playfully finding out what turned them on.
   I was literally in the best possible situation a teenager could want: TWO cute girls; freedom to be myself without worrying they would reject the“real me”; and horny, experimental sex partners willing to try just about anything. I had it made.
   Leaning over Cassidy’s ear, I smiled and asked, “Want to feel me cumming deep inside you?”
   Cassidy wriggled her crotch at me and husked.“Do it! Shoot that hot, nasty jizz into my little pussy and maybe, just maybe, I can convince Megan to try eating it out of me.”
   Yeah, I didn’t last very long after that.* * *
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came the sultry, sweet voice from my left. I glanced over just in time to brace myself as Adrienne bumped her hip into mine, knocking me off balance for a brief second. The day was relatively warm for late February, and she was wearing a short summer skirt so sheer and loose it looked like a stiff breeze would blow it up and reveal her panties, if she was wearing any. Her top wasn’t much more substantial, the scoop-neckline promising to reveal all of her tits if only she would lean forward.
   My eyes did their yo-yo thing down to her tits and then back up to Adrienne’s face as I answered, “Hey, Adrienne.”
   “Just out of Chemistry?” She asked. We’d just had our last periods of this Wednesday and were getting ready to head home.
   “You remembered. I’m impressed. French, right?” I replied.
   “Yep. Change your mind yet?”
   “About what?”
   Adrienne bumped her hip into me again.“YOU know. Do I gotta spell it out for you?”
   I rolled my eyes, pretending I didn’t understand.
   “I want you to fuck my brains out, Ben,” the gorgeous blonde said matter-of-factly.
   My eyes went wide and I jerked down on Adrienne’s arm. “Keep it down! One of Jake’s friends might hear you. And even though I haven’t done a damn thing, the entire football would kick my ass anyways!”
   “Don’t worry. I’ve done this before,” she said in a ‘well-duh’ voice. And then she switched her tone to sweetly seductive. “Come on, Ben. Take me around the world? Jake would NEVER find out.”
   I stopped in my tracks.“You’re not just teasing me, are you?” It was a statement, not a question.
   “Nope. I’ve decided you’re worth a try. Jake just isn’t cutting it for me and while I still need him for arm candy, I’m being forced to look elsewhere to get the right buttons pushed. I’m notalways a tease, Ben.”
   “And I’m taken. Happily.”
   “Come on, Ben. You’ve been drooling over me since we were kids,” Adrienne’s hazel eyes flashed as she tossed her golden hair over one shoulder and fixed me with theperfect seductive smile. Her hands slid up her torso.“Don’t you want to know what these tits feel like? I’ve got the hottest, wettest pussy you can imagine, Ben. I can suck a golf ball through a garden hose. And I have the greatest orgasms when my man shoves his fat dick up my ass. I can go all day, Ben. Now, aren’t you the least bit curious?”
   My jaw quivered and if she kissed me right then, I would have dropped her to the ground and started fucking her right in front of the whole school. My cock was so hard I was sure it would bust right through the denim of my jeans. And I think I started drooling.
   Just then, an arm slipped around mine as Megan wrapped me up and said,“Hey, baby!” She then turned to Adrienne and fixed the taller girl with a nasty glare. “Adrienne…” she growled while her eyes narrowed. Even though she was six inches shorter than the tall, blonde cheerleader, Megan wasn’t intimidated in the slightest and she looked ready to start a spitting contest.
   I couldn’t help but notice that next to Adrienne in her attention-grabbing top and short skirt, Megan looked positively plain in a cheap T-shirt and jeans, standard attire for a typical high schooler. Adrienne, on the other hand, looked like she’d stepped off the pages of a travel bureau advertisement.
   “Hmm,” Adrienne just turned up her nose at my girlfriend, regarding her as not even worthy of a challenge. And then the tall blonde spun away. “Talk to you later, Ben,” she called over her shoulder as she began to sashay down the hall, swinging her hips obviously to ensure I’d be staring at her ass.
   And I was staring. So help me, even with my girlfriend clutching my arm, I still had Adrienne’s words of seduction ringing through my head and I couldn’t help but stare at that perfect ass and imagine running my dick in and out of those cheeks.
   Megan slapped my arm.“Stop staring!”
   I think I drooled. And in a caveman voice, I grunted,“Can’t help it. I’m just a guy.”
   Megan reached her hand down and surreptitiously ran her fingers over the bulge in my jeans, as big of an erection as I’d ever had in my life. She then sighed and wrapped her arms more tightly around my elbow. “C’mon Ben. We’re gonna find Cassidy and then you’re gonna get that midweek fucking you’ve always been wanting.”* * *
   I love Wednesdays. Well, I loved THAT Wednesday. Megan and Cassidy decided to cleanse my head of Adrienne by fucking any possible trace of lust out of my body.
   The girls gave me a tandem blowjob, licking up both sides of my dick and switching back and forth between who was on my shaft and who was on my balls. We ended with me spurting into Cassidy’s mouth, her swallowing it all down even though she didn’t like the taste just to show me how much she loved me.
   The girls then lay me on my back and then each rode me until I spunked inside their pussies, all the while reminding me that I was THEIR boyfriend and that they didn’t want to share me with ANYBODY.
   And then, even though I’d already cum three times, Cassidy sucked me back to life and then fed me into Megan’s lubricated asshole, where I reamed out my girlfriend before busting my nut into the depths of her bowels.
   And to finish things off, the girls put me in the shower and together, they lathered me up and massaged my weary muscles. I even managed to get one more erection from their tender caresses, and this time it was Megan who swallowed what was left of my spending.
   By the time I got home, even the bones in my body were limp. I don’t think I’ve ever gone to sleep that early before.MARCH 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   Turned out, I enjoyed the following Wednesday as well. Seriously, Wednesdays are AWESOME.
   It started off like any other day. I drove to school a chatty Brooke, who could talk for hours and hours without me even pretending to listen
   At school, I cracked jokes with Kenny and Daniel in between periods. I stole kisses and copped feels of my girlfriends. And I listened to the rumor mill spinning new stories about who was crushing on who.
   At the end of the day, I kissed my girlfriends goodbye and stridently wished Friday would come sooner. And then I drove home a chatty Brooke, who continued jibber-jabbering as if no time had elapsed.
   What was so great about Wednesday began when the phone rang. As eldest child in the house, it was my duty to answer it.
   At first, I moaned. Eden and Emma had recently gotten sucked into some lame Disney Channel afternoon show and once they got control of the TV remote, I never had the heart to remove it from them. I always had a soft spot for my baby sisters.
   But figuring the call might be from one of my girlfriends, or even one of my guy friends, I got up and went to the cordless handset. Sure enough, Emma pounced on the remote and changed the channel the second I got up.
   Shaking my head, I answered the phone and said,“Hello?”
   “Hi, Ben…” Keira sighed into the line. She sounded rather upset. “Ah, I broke up with Stuart on Saturday. I asked him if he wanted to get married someday and have kids and he told me he didn’t.”
   “Oh, I’m sorry.” Keira HAD pretty much told me she wasn’t expecting Stuart to be the settling-down type. I was more sad just because of the pain in Keira’s voice.
   “Ben, uh, do you think you can come over for a bit? I, uh, I’ll get you home before dinner. But… uh—”
   I interrupted before she could ramble any further.“I’ll be right there,” I promised. I would move Heaven and Earth for Keira McNeil. If she wanted a shoulder to cry on then I wanted to be that shoulder.
   Ten seconds later, I poked my head into Brooke’s room and informed her that I was going out and that she was in charge. My little sister just shrugged and I headed out the door.
   As usual, it was a short walk to Keira’s house. I’d barely rung the bell when the door swung open and there she stood, the beautiful older woman who’d introduced me to the wonderful world of sex. And even though she had tears in her eyes, she was just as pretty as ever.
   “Hi, Ben,” Keira looked at me blearily through moist eyes. It was automatic for me to open my arms, and the lovely brunette stepped forward to let me envelope her in a warm hug. Good lord she smelled good, and for a moment I felt the urge to turn her head and kiss her. Old habits.
   But I restrained myself and settled for a peck to her cheek before she stood back and welcomed me inside. I took in her appearance, as she was comfortably clad in her usual white V-necked shirt and short shorts, both of which I had fond memories of removing from her luscious body. Whether an appropriate mood or not, I felt a tingling in my crotch.
   Without a word, we went into the living room and then sat down together on the couch. Keira stayed silent, merely sighing as she leaned against me and once again let me wrap her up in my arms.
   We simply cuddled for a few long minutes while Keira shuddered from time to time. But eventually, she managed to work things out and she pulled back just enough to turn her gaze to mine.“I feel so silly,” she said softly. “We broke up four days ago. I was just FINE. I knew what I wanted for my future and he couldn’t give it to me. So we split up and I was perfectly comfortable with that.”
   I stayed silent and slowly stroked Keira’s back, caressing her tenderly.
   “It wasn’t until this morning that it hit me,” she continued, her voice cracking. “Stuart’s GONE. Almost a year of my life down the drain.”
   “Not even seven months,” I shook my head. “That’s hardly a year.”
   “Whatever. I’ll be thirty soon and still be single. It’s just another FAILED relationship. I’M a failure.”
   “You’re not a failure,” I disagreed immediately. “And from what you told me about him and why you got together in the first place, it wasn’t even a failed relationship. You didn’t want anything serious at the time. HE didn’t want anything serious. You both got the relationship you wanted. No failures. And in time, you changed your mind about what you wanted and you need to go looking for a different guy for that.”
   Keira smiled wryly at me.“When did you get so philosophical about romance?”
   I shrugged.“Brandi had the remote control half the time, so I was stuck watching whatever sappy shows she was watching. And the girls at school talk about this stuff all the time.” I grinned. “I’m thenice guy. I listen.”
   Keira chuckled again and then put her head back on my shoulder. She cradled herself against the crook of my neck and hummed with satisfaction.“It feels so good to have you holding me, Ben,” she sighed. “I missed this.”
   I smiled, feeling her cuddling warmth.“Me, too.”
   “Not missing it too much. YOU still have two girlfriends to cuddle with,” she chuckled.
   For some reason, a line Adrienne had mentioned came into my head. And quite sincerely I told Keira,“Two of them don’t add up to one of you.”
   She pulled her head away.“Don’t say that. They’re your girlfriends, Ben.”
   I smiled.“It’s no slight against them. Megan and Cassidy are wonderful. I enjoy what we have for now. But seriously, I’m sixteen. I can’t marry BOTH of them and eventually, we’ll split up as we grow up. But you’re just that much more important to me than they are. You will forever be my first, Keira.”
   She smiled and then leaned up to peck my cheek before returning her head to my shoulder as she began running her hand over my chest. The idle dragging of her fingers slowly pressed down until she was actually rubbing my pectoral muscle, and subconsciously I tightened it beneath her hand.
   Keira giggled as she snuggled tighter into me.“You know, Ben, cuddling with you isn’t the only thing I miss.”
   “Oh?”
   “No.” Keira’s hand began tracing lower down my chest towards my navel, and as I glanced down at her I saw that the top of her robe had parted just a bit, affording me a nice view of her plunging V-neck and the creamy swells of her breasts. I started to harden up again, just in time for Keira’s hand to move over my crotch. “I missed this too,” she said, patting my bulge.
   I gulped with mingled anticipation and uncertainty. She HAD stopped the physical side of our relationship, but that was out of loyalty to Stuart. Now that he was out of the picture, were“we” back on? I didn’t want to jump to conclusions, but I could sure hope.
   Keira’s voice dropped to a husk while her hand began to stroke along my crotch, my prick slowly growing in my jeans at a rather awkward angle. “You’re bigger than Stuart, did I ever tell you that?”
   “Uh, no,” I grunted and then winced as I felt the restrictive denim not quite allowing me the freedom of motion I would have wanted.
   Keira read the tension in my face and deftly, with one hand, she popped open my fly and slid her hand beneath the waistband of both my jeans and shorts, having just enough room to grab my cock and aim it back up towards my bellybutton. I sighed happily as this new direction felt much less painful.
   And as soon as I felt my face relax with that pleasant little release from pain, Keira made me tighten up again as she tightened her grip around the shaft, squeezing gently. I groaned at the pleasure as she began stroking me, thrilled to be starting back down the path of sexuality with my older and no less beautiful first lover. And yet I wanted even more.
   Of like mind, Keira slipped off the couch and moved to her knees in front of me. I let a happy grin come over my face as she leaned in to unzip me. And then she was pulling my cock through the flap of my boxers while she husked,“I missed having you in my mouth, Ben. Sometimes when I was sucking Stuart, I would close my eyes and imagine it was you. You have such a beautiful cock, Ben. Did you know that?”
   Actually, I did. Dayna Evans had been quite insistent on that assessment, and I grinned at the memory of the 18-year-old blonde hottie. Not for the first time I wondered: Which young woman was the bigger cumslut? Either way, the 29-year-old brunette was the one currently taking my dick into her mouth, and I sagged into the couch as I felt my thick column of manmeat being surrounded by the warm wetness of Keira’s mouth.
   “Oh, baby,” I groaned.
   “Mmm… I MISSED doing this to you, Ben,” Keira moaned around my cock with her eyes closed. She savored my dick as if it were the most wonderful food she had ever tasted, and I felt her tongue rubbing the underside of my shaft while she slowly moved her head up and down, swallowing me until my head nudged against her throat before she pulled back until just the crown was still inside her lips.
   There was something nostalgic about the way Keira was blowing me. We’d actually been apart now for longer than we’d originally been screwing, and yet it was as if no time had passed at all. She fell right back into the same rhythms she’d used with me back when I was remodeling her house. And I remembered the old pleasures as I held her head in my hands. “Sogood, baby,” I groaned. “Suck me. Suck me.”
   She moaned in answer and sucked me harder. It was so good and the mental high of knowing Keira McNeil was giving me a blowjob again had me at the peak of pleasure in just a few short minutes.
   “Oh Keira,” I gasped. “I’m gonna cum! I’m gonna cum in your mouth!”
   “Gimme!” she mumbled around my cock. “Gimme your cum!” Her right hand squeezed tightly around my shaft and started jacking me upwards, and I felt the air leave my lungs as I literally stopped breathing to cum. My abs contracted, my hips shuddered, and several gobs of searing hot jism flew out of me to splatter inside Keira’s mouth.
   The beautiful adult brunette groaned happily and began swallowing me down. And after the first few shots I started gasping for oxygen again while I let her squeeze the rest out of me. My hips bucked again and again, dry heaving even after I no longer had any more cum to give.
   When we were done, I was panting, she was panting, and we both had goofy grins on our faces. One drop had leaked down her chin, and when I pointed it out, Keira’s green eyes sparkled and she scooped it up with one finger before popping it into her mouth. “Mmm… thank you, Ben. I needed that.”
   I panted softly and let my eyes wander over her body. From her kneeling position, the neckline of her shirt fell away to give me a few extra inches of cleavage to ogle, and I hungrily devoured her with my gaze. And in a teasing voice I said,“Well, I’m sure there areother things I can do to make you feel better right now.”
   Both her eyebrows went up, and with a saucy grin Keira got to her feet and put her hands to her shorts, unbuttoning them and pushing both them and her panties down her shapely thighs.“Have you been practicing what I taught you, Ben?”
   I hungrily drank in all her exposed skin while my eyes went straight to her naked pussy, topped with neatly trimmed dark hair. I nodded slowly,“I’m told I’m getting even better.”
   Keira shivered and cooed,“Oooh… show me.”
   I smiled as we switched places, Keira flopping to a seated position while I spun around and knelt between her spread legs. And then I proceeded to remind my sexual teacher that the student was quickly becoming a master.
   I’d forgotten some of Keira’s specific love buttons, the little quirks and techniques that she loved the most. But there’s something to be said for lots of practice and lots of variety. Dawn and Dayna had taught me a lot. I experimented enough with Megan, Cassidy, and Brandi to figure out evenmore. And when it came to Keira McNeil, I heldnothing back. She deserved the best, and she GOT the best. It’s just karma. She’d done such a great thing for me back in the beginning and she was reaping the rewards of her good work.
   Keira reaped the rewards three times before I finally got up. By that time, she’d stripped off her shirt and bra, and one of her orgasms came on my fingers while I leaned up and suckled on a full breast. The last one was with three of my fingers stretching her pussy while my teeth grazed against her clit almost painfully. And while she was still screaming out that third climax, I dropped my jeans and boxers to my ankles and buried my prick into her steaming snatch.
   She had a fourth orgasm less than thirty seconds later.
   I held nothing back for this fuck. There was no second girl waiting for her turn, so I didn’t need to pace myself. I just let fly with every ounce of energy and desire I had for this beautiful young lady.
   “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me!”
   I did just that.
   “Pound me, Ben! Harder! Fill me with your big, teenaged cock!”
   I pounded her even harder.
   “Aauugh! Fuck ME! FUCK ME! AAAAHHH!”
   Keira’s latest climax triggered mine. And then my grunting was joining her yelling as I slammed myself all the way inside her clenching pussy and expelled all my liquid desire into the roiling maelstrom inside her.
   And even then we weren’t done. Wanting to show off for Keira, I scooped my arms beneath her shoulders and hoisted her up and into my lap. Then after a pause to balance myself, I stood up straight, wrapping her legs around my waist while my cock stayed imbedded inside her. And after a couple of brief kicks to get my jeans and boxers off my ankles, I carried Keira into her bedroom.
   “You’re getting so BIG, Ben,” Keira sighed as I easily supported her. Her hand rubbed the muscles of my shoulders. Fucking is VERY good for muscle tone.
   Upon arrival, I threw Keira onto her back across the bed and only then pulled my half-hard dick free of her sodden pussy. Then I quickly moved to kneel beside her head so she could take me in her mouth, savoring both our flavors on my shaft, and so we could get ready for rounds 2 and 3 and whatever beyond.
   There was plenty of time before dinner.* * *
   “My mom is gonna kill me,” I grimaced as I tried to hop back into my jeans. “She doesn’t care WHAT I do after school as long as I get my homework done and I get home ON TIME.”
   “You’ve still got three minutes, Ben,” Keira said soothingly while wrapping her robe tighter around her body. She wasn’t wearing anything beneath it and the hard nubs of her nipples were poking out. My dick was still hard and I was sorely tempted to go for another round, consequences be damned.
   “Stop it,” Keira scolded, seeing where my eyes were going and covering herself with her arms. “Go, go.”
   “Can I see you tomorrow?” I asked hopefully while I hunted for my shoes. Tomorrow was a Thursday and I had no plans.
   Keira sighed.“Ben, we shouldn’t.”
   I frowned.“Why not?”
   “I want to,” she began and then paused.
   I arched an eyebrow.“But…”
   “I told you, Ben. I know what I want for my future now. Stuart couldn’t give it to me, and neither can you. We can’t keep doing this. If I get too comfortable having you around, I’ll never put in the effort I need to really go out there and find the family I really want.”
   THAT sure made my erection deflate. And my face reflected my dick’s disappointment.
   “Oh, don’t be sad Ben. I’m not getting married yet!” She smiled at me.
   “So… maybe we can get together? Sometime?”
   “Maybe,” she laughed and pushed me towards the door. “Now GO!”
   I turned and ran outside. I JUST might make it back in time.* * *
   The house was quiet when I slipped inside. I smelled food coming from the kitchen and checked my watch. Mom always started dinner promptly at 6:30pm, but it was already 6:32pm. I was late.
   Quietly, I padded down the hallway towards the dining room. I only got halfway before Brooke stepped out in front of me, folding her arms over her chest.“You’re late.”
   For a moment I was ready to panic, but then my brain caught up.“Hey, you’re not at the table either.”
   Brooke sighed.“You’re lucky mom’s running behind schedule today.”
   Then Brooke’s evil grin spread across her face. “Of course, I could tell her that you got home late, too.”
   Blackmail. Ooh, why did little sisters have to be such devils?
   I grimaced but then Brooke’s face softened. “Relax. I won’t tattle. But you still owe me.”
   I rolled my eyes.“Add it to my tab.”
   Brooke smirked and then took a big sniff of the air, her cute nose wrinkling.“You smell funny, Ben.”
   I shrugged and just pushed past her for the stairs. Maybe I could take a quick shower or at least put on some deodorant. But just as I was passing my sister she jerked and grabbed my elbow.
   Brooke took another sniff and then it hit her, realization spreading quickly across her face. Her eyebrows furrowed and she tilted her head down.“You’ve been having SEX! But your car is still here!” she hissed, her eyes whirling.
   I looked down at her in surprise that I’d been caught, and my little sister’s gaze darted back and forth in my eyes.
   “Who was it?” Brooke interrogated.
   “Don’t know what you’re talking about,” I said brusquely and pushed past her.
   “Ben, please?” Brooke’s voice was quiet as she held onto my arm. “I swear I won’t tell. I just want to know. It wasn’t Megan or Cassidy, was it?”
   “I can’t tell you. It’s a secret.”
   “Are you cheating on them?”
   “No! Well, not exactly.” I squirmed. I’d made the decision to myself that people like Keira, Dawn, and Brandi weren’t cheating. Not to me. But there was still a little guilt in the back of my head.
   “But you’re having sex with someone who isn’t one of your girlfriends,” she narrowed her eyes.
   “I had sex with Brandi, too. She’s my sister. That’s not cheating.” I shrugged.
   “I’m your sister. So you’d be okay having sex with me? It wouldn’t be cheating either, Ben.” Brooke asked softly and pulled on my arm to bring me a little closer.
   “No!” I hissed and backed off. I wanted nothing more than to get away from this conversation.
   “You owe me, Ben. When are you going to teach me about sex stuff?”
   Exasperated, I sighed,“When you’re older!”
   “Promise?”
   “Sure.” At least it gave me lots of time to fend her off. Older? Yeah, like when she was thirty.
   “Okay,” Brooke grinned happily and finally released my arm. “Now go take a shower or something. You don’t want Mom smelling you.”
   I sighed with relief and headed up the stairs. I’d just survived a major scare. Brooke had the potential to blow my old affair with Keira wide open. But our secret was safe.
   Or so I thought.* * *
   “Heyyy, Ben,” came the sultry, sweet voice from my left. I glanced over just in time to brace myself as Adrienne bumped her hip into mine, knocking me off balance for a brief second. Today she wore a hip-hugging skirt that ended several inches above her knees, pushing the boundaries of the school dress code. Up top, she wore a white, short-sleeved mock turtle. But despite the collar, there was a wide semi-circle opening in the top to draw one’s focus to her bare cleavage, and the material was skin-tight enough to prove her tits were very big and very round.
   My eyes did their yo-yo thing down to her tits and then back up to Adrienne’s face as I answered, “Hey, Adrienne.” My voice was a little wary. Each time Adrienne had stopped by to chat with me she’d gotten progressively bolder and bolder, flat out telling me she wanted me to screw her brains out.
   But this time, Adrienne just kept her distance and giggled.“Relax Ben, I’m not trying to seduce you. Not right now, at least. I just need a favor.”
   Not yet believing her, I replied with a cautious,“Oh?”
   Adrienne nodded.“Could you give me a ride home today?”
   “Oh, uh,” I stammered, trying to think of a way out of it. “I dunno if that’s a good idea.”
   “C’mon, Ben,” the gorgeous blonde cheerleader pouted. “You can’t leave me stranded here.”
   “What’s wrong with your car?”
   “Oh,” Adrienne looked off while twirling her hair with a finger. “It’s in the shop.”
   In the back of my head, I KNEW something was off. My brain was working overtime trying to analyze the situation.“How’d you get here then?” Surely whatever ride brought her could also take her home.
   Adrienne shrugged and looked honestly into my eyes.“My dad dropped me off on the way into work. I told him I’d find a way home since he never leaves the office before like 9 or 10pm.”
   I winced, trying to think of a way out of the situation. For some reason, I knew spending any time alone with Adrienne would get me into trouble. But I couldn’t think of a good reason since she DID live on the same street. And after all, Brooke would be in the car with us. What was the worst that could happen?
   So wanting to maintain my nice guy reputation, I shrugged and said,“Sure. Meet me after school.”
   Adrienne giggled and bounced back.“See you later… stud.”* * *
   “Mmmmmmph!” Cassidy pulled back and smiled at me. “I got plans for you tomorrow, Ben.”
   Before I could answer, Megan was in my arms to give me her goodbye kiss.
   “Mmmmmmph!” Megan backed her lips away from mine and grinned. “Me, too.”
   “Ooh! Do I get a kiss, too?” Adrienne’s voice cut in from the left and both my girlfriends turned to glare at her.
   Adrienne was already laughing and holding her hands up.“Just kidding, just kidding.”
   Neither Megan nor Cassidy looked like they believed her. Megan even spat,“What’s SHE doing here?”
   “Relax, relax,” the gorgeous blonde tried to placate the two other girls. “I asked Ben to give me a ride home. My car is in the shop and we DO live on the same street.”
   Megan arched an eyebrow, just like I did.“And how did you get here?”
   Adrienne explained about her dad and Megan pinched her lips together in mild frustration. But just then, Brooke bounced up and looked at us four older kids.“We going now?” my little sister asked.
   I shrugged to my girlfriends and patted Brooke’s shoulder. “Yeah, we’re going. We just need to drop off Adrienne on the way.”
   Brooke shrugged.“Whatever.”
   Megan and Cassidy seemed to calm down knowing Brooke was with us. But they both stepped in to give me firm kisses and then glared at Adrienne, marking their territory as it was. And then with wary looks in the eyes of my girlfriends, we all split off and headed for our cars.* * *
   The ride home was… interesting. Being just a lowly freshman, Brooke seemed to be thrilled that one of the most popular girls in school was in the car with us; and she chatted incessantly with Adrienne the entire way home. They talked about boys and clothes and classes and Adrienne genuinely took an interest in mylittle sister, who was fawning all over her like an adoring fan.
   I stayed silent and just drove.
   But just as we turned onto our street, Adrienne piped up and asked,“Brooke, do you mind if we drop you off first? Ben and I need to talk privately.” Adrienne flashed me a mysterious look.
   “Sure! Sure!” Brooke replied, eager to please. And just then, we pulled up outside our house and with a nagging warning in the back of my head, I pulled over to the side to let my sister out.
   From the front passenger seat, as Brooke turned to unbuckle her seatbelt, she gave me a wry smile and waggled her eyebrows at me. It was as if she was saying,‘So THIS is who you were fucking yesterday afternoon.’ It would explain why I hadn’t needed a car.
   I shot Brooke a warning glare in response, trying to convey with my eyes that I’d explain later. But she just grinned and started getting out of the car. “I’ll see you at school tomorrow, Adrienne?”
   “You bet!” The gorgeous blonde in my backseat grinned.
   Brooke happily skipped up to the front door, firmly believing she was making friends with Miss Popular.
   “Your sister is very cute,” Adrienne commented. “She should join the JV cheerleaders.”
   “Maybe,” I grunted as I shifted the car back into gear for the short hop to Adrienne’s.
   Already, she’d pulled a remote out of her bag and was leaning over the seat. “Just park in the garage.”
   “Huh?” I’d thought I was just dropping her off.
   “Park. In. The. Garage.” Her tone was a command and without realizing it, I was already turning into the driveway and moving up into the available space in the 2-car garage.
   It wasn’t until I was already inside and Adrienne was closing the garage door behind us that I noticed the other car, a cherry red Mustang convertible. “Hey, isn’t that your car?”
   “Yes.”
   “You said it was in the shop!”
   “I lied.”
   “Adrienne!” I started to panic as my mind started racing. I wanted to shift the car into gear and back out, but the garage door was already closed, sealing me in. “What’s going on?”
   “You’re coming inside with me,” Adrienne said matter of factly as she got out of the back seat. “Turn off the engine, Ben.”
   “Open the garage door!” I barked back.
   Adrienne sighed and folded her arms beneath her breasts.“Turn off the engine or I’ll tell the police that you’ve been banging Miss McNeil.”
   My eyes popped wide open in shock and Adrienne circled around the front of the car. I’d had the windows down to let in the breeze and she simply leaned in my window, reached around the steering wheel, and switched off the ignition. That also put her tits right in my face and I couldn’t help but stare, ogling the skin of her breasts, smelling her perfume, and feeling my jeans get a little tighter. Adrienne then pulled away and stood up, my car keys in her hand as she calmly sashayed into the house.
   Stuck in Adrienne Dennis’ garage withno car keys, I didn’t have much choice but to follow her inside.
   Perhaps I would have been better off in the car.
   The first thing I saw on the floor just inside the door were Adrienne’s strappy heels. No big deal. But just three feet past them was a very sheer, white satin thong. And from the way it reflected the light, it appeared to be moist.
   Then in the hallway was Adrienne’s skirt. I found myself following the trail of clothing, leaving them where they lay, and just past the skirt was Adrienne’s white shirt. I followed along and then at the doorway to a bedroom was a lacey white bra, the cups looking humungous.
   I paused in the hallway and found that I was breathing hard. My chest was rising and falling dramatically and my heart was pounding. I stared at the bra on the floor, knowingexactly what it meant. Just a few feet away, I could stand in the doorway to Adrienne’s bedroom and see her waiting for me completely naked.
   It was simultaneously thrilling and frightening. The thrill was obvious. Adrienne was the most gorgeous girl I’d ever met. She had a face that would make models jealous, tits as big as Dayna’s, if not bigger, and a slender body with tight ass that seemed better suited to comic books than real human beings. And she wanted to FUCK me.
   I wanted to. Oh how I’d wanted to for a LONG time, since I first grew hair on my balls. But I had girlfriends. They might understand Brandi. They might even understand Keira. But there was no way in hell they would understand Adrienne. I knew that for a FACT.
   I knew I shouldn’t go into the bedroom. Even without my car keys, I could just walk out the door and run home. She couldn’t keep my car hostage forever, could she? I could tell Megan and Cassidy EXACTLY what happened. They’d understand. They might even be proud of me for walking away.
   ‘Don’t do it, Ben. Don’t do it. Don’t do it. Don’t do it.’
   I had to walk away.
   But I didn’t.
   I took three steps forward, leaned down and picked up the bra. My eyes bugged out when I saw the 36E tag. Shit, she WAS bigger than Dayna. And only 16. With such a tiny waist and hips, it just didn’t seem FAIR. And then my eyes went up and I saw the goddess in all her naked glory, stretched out across a bed adorned with pink sheets, her golden hair a bright halo around her head.
   Yeah, right, like I was looking at her head. My eyes were on those TITS. Good fucking lord they were fabulous. And as she lifted one knee into the air, spreading her thighs, I saw that the pink of her bare-shaven pussy was even brighter than the bedsheets.
   “Took you long enough,” Adrienne said in a low, sultry voice.
   Even as I ogled her fantastic naked body, my conscience made one last desperate attempt. I gulped and pleaded,“Adrienne, I can’t do this.”
   “Sure you can. Insert tab A into slot B. And then take me to Heaven,” she sighed rapturously.
   My arm shaking, I held out my hand.“Please, Adrienne. Give me my keys.”
   She lifted a hand, twirling my keys around her finger.“These? Why don’t you come over here and get them.”
   Setting my jaw, I tried to focus on the keys and avoid looking at her naked body as I approached the bed. I certainly wanted to keep ogling her, but the more I did the more I felt my resolve crumbling. Adrienne seemed to realize what I was doing as she brought the keys down and held them directly between her breasts, forcing me to stare at them.
   Instead, I shifted my gaze to her face and stood beside her head.“The keys, Adrienne.”
   The gorgeous blonde pouted and rolled her hazel eyes up to me.“You’re no fun,” she whined and handed the keys over. I snatched them and visibly relaxed. I’d go open the garage door, back my car out, and pretend this never happened. I turned to go back towards Adrienne’s bedroom door.
   “I WILL go to the police about Miss McNeil, Ben.” Her voice was cold.
   I froze halfway through my turn. I’d almost forgotten about that part. Still with my torso turned away from her, I rotated my head back. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
   Adrienne propped herself up on one elbow, her massive tits jiggling slightly while her pink nipples were hard enough to cut glass. Despite the decidedly unsexy subject matter of police, Adrienne was still very turned on. Her gaze was cool as she said matter-of-factly,“I saw you two yesterday. And I saw you a few times before that. Pretty friendly greetings at the door, wouldn’t you say?”
   I shrugged, playing dumb.“I do handywork around her house. Remodeled some of her rooms.”
   “Yes. And I’ll bet that’s not all the work you do for her. She’s a very pretty woman, Ben.”
   I shook my head.“You’re wrong. She’s just my neighbor.”
   “You’re not a very good liar, Ben.” Adrienne looked at me coldly now. “And I WILL tell the police. You’re sixteen. That’s statutory rape.”
   “They’d never believe you.”
   Adrienne shrugged, which set her tits to wobbling again.“Doesn’t matter. The accusation would be enough. Put the spotlight on her. Launch an investigation. Your Mom would never let you see her again.”
   I took a deep breath and exhaled slowly, wincing in defeat. I hung my head.“Why are you doing this?”
   “I don’t want to tell anybody. Not my style. But I will, if that’s what it takes to get what I want.” She looked at me with superior triumph in her eyes.
   “And what do you want, Adrienne?”
   “You really are dense, aren’t you, Ben? I thought I made that clear. I want YOU.”
   “Why me? You can have any guy you want. A guy who’s willing.”
   Adrienne shrugged.“You intrigue me. A year ago, you were just a short, skinny, ordinary boy. But you grew up. You got handsome. And you have a… a presence… about you. There’s a confidence in the way you walk nowadays. You’re getting laid, Ben. You’re doing it very well. And the girls you do it with are VERY appreciative. And while Jake is better-looking and more popular than you, he’s a lousy lay.”
   “He’s YOUR boyfriend.”
   She smiled predatorily.“I keep him for the popularity. I intend to keep YOU for the sex.”
   I looked down at my crotch. Despite Adrienne’s beauty and nudity, I wasn’t very hard. Being blackmailed and having a woman as special to me as Keira threatened wasn’t exactly arousing. “I don’t think I’m going to be much use to you in that department. The situation is a bit of a turn-off.”
   “You let me worry about getting you hard. I’mvery talented at it,” Adrienne grinned and let her tongue lick across her lip. Immediately, I felt an extra twinge in my crotch.
   “Even if I fuck you, it won’t be that good. Not if I’m being coerced.”
   “It’d better be, Ben. I want 100 % or Miss McNeil’s face will be all over the Orange County Register,” she warned.
   I winced at the thought of Keira’s face in the newspaper and felt myself going soft again.
   “But don’t worry about that, Ben,” Adrienne’s voice turned honey sweet and I looked up at her. She let her hands cup her own breasts and then run down her torso, one hand dipping between her legs to push two fingers inside her own pussy. “I’m avery good motivator.”
   With that, Adrienne brought up the fingers to her own mouth, the digits glistening with moisture that she licked off while fixing her hazel-eyed gaze right on me. My jaw dropped and I closed my eyes for a moment.
   I WANTED to fuck Adrienne. I did. And now I had an excuse. It wasn’t really my fault, was it? I couldn’t let Keira end up in jail over me, could I? So fucking Adrienne was actually the RIGHT thing to do, wasn’t it? It was the lesser of two evils.
   I sighed.“You swear you won’t rat out Miss McNeil?”
   Adrienne sat up, realizing that things were going her way.“I swear.”
   I felt my cock getting harder.“You won’t tell my girlfriends?”
   “I won’t,” Adrienne nodded. “Whether your conscience will let you keep it a secret is up to you.”
   I sighed as I took stepped towards the bed.“I’m going to hell.”
   Adrienne giggled as she reached her hands out to me and started lifting my shirt over my head.“But it’s going to feel SOOO good getting there.”* * *
   She was incredible.
   She was abso-friggin-nymphomaniacally-incredible.
   After stripping my shirt, the gorgeous blonde 16-year-old with firm E-cup tits rolled me onto my back across the bed and shoved her tongue into my mouth. She tasted spicy and sweet at the same time, and I felt a crackle of electricity zap my lips as we began to devour each other. Meanwhile, her hands scrabbled for mine, pulling my palms over her tits and clamping them down so that I was squeezing her boobs harshly. And once I got my paws on those incredible globes, I was completely lost.
   I didn’t matter anymore that she’d threatened to accuse Keira of statutory rape. I didn’t matter anymore that I had two amazing girlfriends. I was no longer being coerced. I WANTED to fuck Adrienne.
   But I was still a little pissed off at being manipulated and trapped like this. Adrenaline pumped through my veins and I was flushed with a fierce energy. And all at once, I took charge.
   My hands left Adrienne’s tits and seized her thin shoulders. She felt light as a rag doll as I suddenly pushed, flipping us over so that I was on top. Adrienne squealed as I rolled us, her sound cut off when I shoved my tongue back into her mouth, muffling her into a low, erotic moan.
   Her hands were scrabbling at my jeans now, tugging and opening in a hurry and yet with coordinated expertise. Once she got them unfastened, I rolled away to shuck them off me and dropped my socks and shoes to leave me fully naked. Then immediately, I got back to my knees and yanked Adrienne’s body around to place her face in front of my erection.
   “Suck me, bitch,” I growled.
   Hungrily, Adrienne just opened her mouth and dove forward, sucking on my dick with two long head bobs before she relaxed her throat and then took me all the way inside, pushing forward until her puffy lips were wrapped around the base of my shaft. Through blonde bangs, she rolled her hazel eyes up to me, simultaneously looking for approval and twinkling with pride.
   I grinned and then leaned forward with my hips, cramming even more meat into her before she backed off to take a breath and then repeat the maneuver.
   I let Adrienne blow me for a few minutes while I mapped out what I wanted to do to her. Adrienne wanted me to fuck her brains out? Well, I’d FUCK HER BRAINS OUT. I’d fuck her throat. I’d fuck her cunt. And then I’d fuck her ass.
   I take her from every direction and I wouldn’t let up until she begged for me to stop. I’d whip the bitch into submission. I’d make her wish she never tried seducing me in the first place. I’d make her wish she never threatened me with blackmail. All-Day Adrienne? We’d see if she could keep up with ME.
   I flopped onto my back and then pulled Adrienne’s naked crotch over my face while still leaving my dick within reach. She was only an inch shorter than me and so we fit nicely in a sixty-nine, and I proceeded to give the slutty blonde the tongue-lashing of her young life.
   I pulled every trick I knew. I licked, I vibrated my tongue, I sucked on her clit. I crammed fingers into her snatch, I popped fingers into her ass, and I ate Adrienne out with a fury. I didn’t just want to make her cum. I wanted to make her cum HARD.
   But it was rather difficult to do, since I was continually being quite distracted. At the other end, Adrienne seemed to take my oral attention as a challenge, because she was giving me the blowjob of my life. And every time I started to push her towards a spectacular climax, she would do this thing with her throat muscles that threatened to make me pop my load well before I wanted.
   Finally, I decided to just give in. I’d held out for a good ten minutes, and if I concentrated on it I could probably hold out even longer. But sometimes success requires a few sacrifices along the way. So the next time Adrienne did that throat thing, I just grunted and let my semen fly.
   Her whole body jerked when I erupted in her mouth. I think she was expecting me to hold back again because she gagged, letting my cum dribble out of her mouth and back down around my shaft to form globs in my pubic hair. But quicker than I would have expected, she recovered and swallowed down the rest of my heavy load. Then once my dick stopped spurting, she still bent her head down to lick up everything she’d originally missed.
   I’d continued softly licking at her snatch while she slurped up all my jizz, just enough to keep her buzzing but not enough to push her over the edge. Adrienne perhaps thought I was tiring because once she was done with my cock, she dismounted my face and turned around, grinning and saying, “Looks like I win. You’re not all tha-AH!”
   Her last word jumped into a scream when I tackled her. And before she realized it, I’d spread Adrienne’s thighs and once again buried my face in her crotch, cramming two fingers into her cunt and another into her ass. And less than three seconds later, she detonated.
   “FUUUUUUCK!!!” Adrienne screamed while her whole body convulsed erratically. Ten minutes of being kept on the edge of orgasm had her primed and ready to go. And as I bore down with tongue and lips and fingers I didn’t give her even time to breathe before the second climax hit her as well.
   “Oh, shit. Oh, shit! Ben! What the fuck are you doing to me? Ugh! Ugh! UNNGH!!!” She grunted as she thrust her tits into the air. I started shaking my head side-to-side, abusing her clit and pushing her to higher and higher levels of ecstasy. Adrienne arched her back so high that she was balanced on the top of her head, with her neck and shoulders and torso elevated completely off the bed.
   When she finally collapsed, she was panting and gasping for breath while her body went limp.“Oh, gawd… oh, gawd…”
   Still, I wouldn’t let up. I twisted my hand around, palm upward while I started curling my two fingers one after the other, searching for and quickly locating her G-spot, which started Adrienne into fresh shudders.
   “No…” she pleaded. “No wait! Lemme breathe… I can’t breathe…”
   I ignored her and kept stroking while I reached up with my left hand, grabbing a swollen tit and pinching on the nipple.
   “Ben… please… please… Oh, FUCK! FUCK! FUCK!!!” Adrienne screamed as she came for the third time in what felt like less than a minute. Her hips launched off the bed and against my head, pushing with enough force that I felt like my neck would snap. And then right in my face, her pussy squirted and I blinked my eyes closed just before the wetliquid splashed against my nose, the smell and taste of Adrienne’s orgasmic nectar only serving to heighten my arousal.
   I hadn’t gone all that soft after blowing down her throat. Watching and listening to Adrienne’s moaning and whimpering had gotten me hard again. And hearing her pleading for mercy was just icing on the cake. I was hard. And I was gonna fuck her lights out. They say you can’t rape the willing. Well,I was gonna try.
   Adrienne was still screaming in that third orgasm when I wiped my face with the back of my hand and moved myself up between her thighs. I grabbed Adrienne’s ankles and bent them backwards, folding the leggy blonde in half as I brought my dick into position.
   The instant my mushroom head started to open her folds, Adrienne’s mouth dropped open and the sexpot teenager suddenly pleaded, “No, Ben! Not yet! I can’t take it! Please! Lemme breathe! Not yet!”
   With a wickedly evil grin that would have rivaled anything Brooke had recently flashed me, I ignored her and lunged my hips forward. My angry cock battered apart Adrienne’s flushed labia as I burrowed down, slamming myself all the way into her wet cunt.
   She didn’t just squeal. She didn’t just yell. Adrienne SCREAMED. She screamed loud enough that my head started ringing and even ten seconds later, my hearing was dull as if a bomb had gone off. She screamed. Her body bucked up at me. And then her head went limp and just twisted to the side.
   Adrienne had passed out.
   I didn’t care. Her pussy was snug and hot. Her tits were glorious and firm beneath my chest. And now she was just an exotic masturbatory tool for my pleasure. So still holding her ankles and trapping them next to her own ears, I fucked Adrienne, her lights already gone out.
   Her head stayed tilted to the side as she was breathing rapidly, shallowly. You could almost hear a moan in her voice with each breath while my cock sawed in and out of her limp body. She drooled a bit for the first few minutes, but after that she sucked in her breath and her head turned upright, her mouth opening up as she began panting, even while still out cold.
   And then incredibly, Adrienne had an unconscious orgasm. The physical characteristics were all there. Her hips hunched against me, her cunt muscles clenched, and she moaned in her sleep. She seemed to be holding her breath for a few seconds before she gasped in exquisite relief, her head falling back just as her eyes began blinking open.
   “Oh… my… gawd…” she sighed, even while I kept rhythmically pumping in and out of her. And with her eyes still fluttering as she woke up, she moaned, “I think I just came.”
   “You did,” I grinned.
   Adrienne’s head came up so that she could sleepily look into my eyes. Her irises were tight, her lips pulled back in a grimace, and her breathing had sped up again. “Ben… Ben… I think I’m cumming again.”
   “Cum, baby, cum.” My eyes glittered as I watched her writhing beneath me. There was no more superior haughtiness in Adrienne’s eyes. No more condescension. I’d conquered the goddess.
   And then she closed her eyes as she let the bliss sweep through her body once again. And this time, I was joining her, my hips slamming forward one final time while I still held her body folded in half. And while I watched Adrienne’s gorgeous hazel eyes fluttering with the pleasure of orgasm, I also saw the exact moment in her gaze when she felt my spunk splattering against her insides, repeated explosions of cream that filled up her tight tunnel and seeped into her womb.
   It was wrong. It was so wrong. Blackmail, lies, deceit, and cheating. It was very, very wrong. But itfelt so fuckinggood.* * *
   Adrienne really was a master motivator. And she was exceedingly talented at getting a man hard, even when I thought I was done for the day.
   I came six times in less than three hours. I lost count of the number of orgasms Adrienne had in the same time frame.
   We also ended up taking two showers together. We got hot and heavy during the first one as I explored every square inch of Adrienne’s uniquely perfect body. Even after we dried off, she was sopping wet and I wound up pounding my way into her cunt while we fucked on the bathroom tile and I squirted my third load inside her.
   We got some snacks and then I found myself sitting on a chair in the dining room while Adrienne sat in my lap, her feet on the ground to give her maximum control to ride my cock to her heart’s content. I just loved how the position put her incredible tits right in my face.
   Midway through that fuck, Adrienne got some linen napkins from a nearby hutch and tied my hands to the chair frame so she could use me as a living dildo. The only thing is, she didn’t do a very good job of securing me. And after she came once, I freed my hands, lifted her up, and bent her over the dining table. With one hand pressed into the small of her back to keep her pinned down, I roughly shoved myself into her from behind.
   She screamed at me and scrabbled for a handhold. With tits as big as hers, it probably wasn’t very comfortable to have her breasts being crushed against the hard surface. But I yelled at her to shut up and started spanking her ass even while I drilled her cunt. She stopped complaining, and in fact I think she was getting even more turned on.
   I spent half that fuck staring at Adrienne’s perfect asscheeks while my hands held her hips. I’d already nutted down her throat and into her cunt. So after ordering her to stay put, I hopped into the kichen, grabbed a bottle of cooking oil, and then squirted a healthy glob of it into Adrienne’s asscrack.
   She squealed and bitched and moaned, but I just spanked her a few more times until she shut up. And then I grabbed her hips and aimed my cock at her tightly clenched anal sphincter.
   The second shower then became necessary after I filled up Adrienne’s rectum with a healthy batch of jism, completing the trifecta of blowing in all three of her holes. It was in the shower that I also got my very first titfuck, losing myself in the ecstasy of sliding my dick in the soapy channel between her massive breasts. I didn’t get off that way, but it certainly got me revved up despite having cum four times already.
   So cleaned up and dried off, we fucked one more time on her bed. Adrienne rode me until I coated her vaginal walls with my fifth load of the afternoon.
   And just when I thought I was dead to the world, Adrienne’s supremely talented mouth revived me for one last go, and I managed to roll on top of her and heave long enough to give her a final climax before I tensed up and squirted what little seminal fluid I had left.
   It was wrong.
   I’d cheated on my girlfriends… SIX TIMES.
   I’d let the most gorgeous girl in school blackmail me into fucking her all afternoon, blowing my wad into all three of her holes and loving every second of it.
   It was wrong.
   But it was worth it.
   I’d deal with the consequences later.
   Chapter 12: Temptress IIMARCH 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   The guilt hit me well before I got back to my house.
   I’d never feltreal guilt before. I mean, I’d had little flashes of “guilt-lite” from time to time. I felt guilty for starting something with Megan when I thought I was “with” Keira. I felt a twinge of guilt for wanting to be with Dawn after I’d promised Megan she’d be my girlfriend when we got back to school. And I felt guilty for fucking and potentially impregnating Cassidy that very first time.
   But not like this. I’dcheated.
   Dawn wasn’t cheating. Brandi wasn’t cheating. But Adrienne was most definitelycheating.
   It didn’t help matters when I went to take a shower before dinner. Brooke just took one sniff of me and then gave me a knowing grin as I raced past her and headed up the stairs.
   I was going to hell.* * *
   “Ben, what’s the matter?” Cassidy pulled her lips off of mine and rolled onto her side next to me. Her gaze was one of sweetly loving concern.
   Megan furrowed her brow on the other side of me, nudging my cheek with her nose.“Ben? You okay?” The look on her face was intense, as if determined to find whatever was bothering me and hold nothing back in fixing it so as to make her man happier.
   I just stared off into the distance, watching the sun set over the ocean. This spot in the foothills had become one of our favorites. It was a twenty minute drive and took two small, one-lane roads away from the main artery. Now that spring was upon us, we’d occasionally get this warm evening where we could spread out some blankets and make love in the open air.
   I sighed. Adrienne had made every promise to keep things quiet. She wouldn’t tell my girlfriends, and I could hook up with her midweek on a regular basis. Seriously, how much more perfect could my life get? TWO cute girlfriends plus discreet booty calls with the hottest girl in school? You top that.
   All I had to do was keep my mouth shut and I’d been having the most incredible sexual life any teenaged boy could ever dream of.
   If I could just handle the guilt.
   I didn’t really LOVE Megan and Cassidy. I certainly enjoyed their company and we were all good friends and I really, really liked them. But we were kids. I loved them in the sense that I was comfortable saying the phrase “I love you” and meaning it… in a puppy-teenager love kind of way. But we weren’t going to get married or anything.
   But even if I didn’t consider it “true love”, I still cared about them. We’d gotten close. We weren’t just “dating”. Dating would mean I could sleep with Adrienne and tell the girls, “Sorry, it’s just not working out.” Then, I wouldn’t feel so guilty. Hell, Cassidy had dumped me because she wanted to jump Drew Walker’s bones.
   No, Megan, Cassidy, and I were“steady”. And steady meant commitment, a commitment I’d violated. And that tore me up inside.
   Sensing my negative thoughts, Megan did the most expedient thing to cheer up a guy. She put my hand on her boob and leaned in to kiss me. But when I dropped my hand away and kept my lips pursed together, both she and Cassidy knew there was something dead wrong.
   “What?” Megan asked. “What is it, Ben?”
   My eyebrows pinched in, my jaw started quivering, and for the first time in recent memory, I felt tears forming in my eyes.
   “Ben?” Cassidy was immediately concerned, touching her hand to my face.
   Her caressing touch felt so… wrong. I didn’t deserve it. So I batted her hand away and sat up straight.
   “Ben?” Megan repeated. She’d come up to this spot with the anticipation of some fun necking and old-fashioned fucking. She’d even packed a picnic so the three of us could spend more time getting naked and not waste hours with a burger joint. Things weren’t going according to her plan. AndMegan HATED it when things didn’t go according to her plan.
   I sighed and instinctively moved one hand over my crotch. I really,really didn’t want Megan to chop my dick off. Then wincing in anticipatory pain, I felt the first tears rolling down my cheeks as I whispered, “I had sex with Adrienne yesterday.”
   It was an interesting progression of expressions that crossed my two girlfriends’ faces. And the expressions shifted simultaneously. To look at one would be to know the expression on the other.
   One moment, they were almost motherly in their concern for my obviously upset state. Confusion then pinched down on their eyebrows as they tried to sort out the potential logistics for what I was describing. Wide-eyed shock followed next, accompanied by gaping-mouthed horror at my betrayal. And then their eyes sharpened down and their gasping lips re-formed into angry grimaces.
   The yelling and violent slapping began then. It was all I could do to keep at least half of their slaps away from my face. There was certainly a downside to dating two girls at the same time. When they get angry, you’re in TWICE the trouble.* * *
   “You’re home early,” my mom commented as I hustled to the stairs. She glanced up at me for a brief moment. “You okay, Ben?”
   “Don’t want to talk about it,” I bristled melodramatically as I darted away. While I didn’t have a black eye or any permanent damage, closer inspection would show that my skin was pink from abuse.
   Eden and Emma were gossiping together about something or other. Unlike my mom, they took a closer look at me as I hurried past them.
   “Ben?” Eden began.
   “What happened to you?” Emma finished.
   “Don’t want to talk about it,” I growled and kept going.
   As I passed them, I heard one of the girls sigh,“Girl trouble.”
   Then the other commented,“Being a teenager seems so HARD.”
   Brooke was in her room and actually got up to follow me into my bedroom. I knew she’d heard the commotion. “Ben?” She asked hesitantly.
   I paused in my own doorway and whirled around to face her.“Don’t want to talk about it.”
   “Ben, it’s me,” she said placatingly. “What’s going on?”
   I snarled at her,“What part of ‘don’t want to talk about it’ do you NOT understand?”
   Brooke took one step back but otherwise held her ground. She leaned her head left and right to get better looks at my face, neck, and arms, all of which were still red from repeated slapping.“Did they HIT you?”
   I took a deep breath, my inhalation shaky as I was on the verge of crying again. I fixed my little sister with an intense look and said firmly,“How would you feel if you found out Perry was fooling around with another girl behind your back?”
   Immediately, Brooke’s eyes narrowed and her nostril’s flared. Her hands clenched and her lips pinched inwards. It took a second for her to let the moment pass and get over her own anger. Then she looked up at me. “They found out you were having sex with Adrienne?”
   I sighed.“I told them. I couldn’t handle the guilt.”
   Brooke cocked her head to the side.“Then why were you having sex with her?”
   I exhaled and remembered the glory of Adrienne’s naked body. Even knowing how everything turned out, knowing that I’d ruined my relationships with Megan and Cassidy, I couldn’t say with total certainty that I would have done things any differently. I was horny and Adrienne was HOT. “Because boys are stupid,” I said dejectedly. “Remember that, Brooke. Boys are STUPID.”* * *
   I stayed in all weekend. I didn’t feel like interacting with the family, citing that I was feeling depressed over girlfriend issues. I also called Megan and Cassidy each on both Saturday and Sunday, getting answering machines both times. I didn’t do much pleading on the phone, just asking them to call me back.
   Neither of them did.
   My parents left me alone. Brooke pitied me and gave me space. But Eden and Emma were just as attention hungry as ever. They pestered me while I played video games and snuggled against me while we watched movies. I sighed and patted the girls on the head or held them against my sides. If things played out the way I expected them to, the twins might be the closest female contact I’d have for a while.
   By Monday, I was dreaming up every possible scenario for the way things would change at school. We had a large group of friends that we interacted with, some sub-groups closer than others. Previously, whenever a couple dated and then broke up, there were only two possible outcomes: One, the breakup was amicable and everyone stayed friends, the way things had been when Cassidy and then Megan had broken up with me back at the beginning of Sophomore year. Or two, the breakup was NOT amicable and mutual friends picked one side over the other. This inevitably shook up the social circles and altered nearly everyone’s relationships.
   Now this had happened several times already, social cliques breaking apart and reforming almost constantly as it would at any high school. I’d just never been in the middle of one before and I was silently wishing for outcome #1 or something at least appearing to be friendly.
   I didn’t get my wish.
   Things were pretty quiet on Monday morning. If nothing else, it took a while for the rumor mill to get spinning. But by the break after second period, my secret was out.
   Kenny Doyle and Daniel Chen were quick to find me after class. They cornered me and Kenny was amped as he started in,“Dude-dude-dude-dude-DUDE! Did you really fuck Adrienne Dennis?”
   I winced in shame and Daniel looked at me reproachfully. But Kenny just held his hand up for a high-five.“Alright! My man!”
   I rolled my eyes and refused to high-five him.
   “Oh, yeah, right. Megan. Cassidy.” Kenny looked chagrined.
   “Why’d you do it?” Daniel frowned.
   “Who WOULDN’T?” Kenny crowed. “Adrienne’s a fucking BABE!”
   Daniel slapped Kenny in the chest.“Man, cheating is NOT cool!” Then Daniel returned back to me. “What happened?”
   I sighed and explained it the same way as I had to Megan and Cassidy once they’d stopped hitting me. I didn’t go into details. I refused to involve Keira or expose her to anyone, including my girlfriends. So I didn’t mention the blackmail part. Instead, I just admitted that Adrienne had drawn me into her house, stripped completely naked, and then ordered me to fuck her. I was horny and I caved.
   Daniel stared at me.“You got seduced.”
   “By the dark siiide…” Kenny growled in a low voice.
   Daniel slapped him in the chest again.
   “Oww!” Kenny rubbed his chest.
   Daniel sighed and shrugged his shoulders. His posture relaxed and one corner of his lips went up.“Coulda happened to anyone. Adrienne IS hot.”
   “Would YOU have?” I asked, looking for some sympathy.
   “I would!” Kenny blurted. Daniel and I ignored him.
   Daniel blinked twice and looked down.“I dunno. I’d like to think I could resist. I DO think I’m in love with Elaine. But I’ve never been in that kind of situation, so I really don’t know.”
   I exhaled and looked down.“Doesn’t matter. The girls’ll never forgive me.”
   Daniel put his hand on my shoulder.“Relax. It’s just high school. This isn’t the end of the world.”
   By lunchtime, it sure felt like it.* * *
   Word spread. At my next class, people were whispering and sneaking peeks at me. By the next break, two guys I’d never met before came and asked me point blank if I’d bagged Adrienne Dennis.
   I shrugged them away and uttered a low“no comment”.
   Meathead One then stopped me with a hand to the chest and said,“Hey, come on, dude. This is nothing to be ashamed about. If you nailed her, you’re the MAN!” He held up his fist and sighing, I bumped it with my own. He patted me on the back as I kept walking over to my next class.
   By the time the last class before lunch ended, I noticed that the whispering stares were no longer accusatory. In fact, most of the guys were staring at me in awe and some of the girls were giving me the once over, ogling me like a piece of meat. I had to admit, the attention boosted my ego and I found myself walking proudly down the hallways, my spine erect as I stood at my full 5’11” (and a quarter inch) height.
   One guy chopped me back down to size. I should have known it would happen eventually.
   I was heading for the lunch line when someone said,“Hey, Ben,” and I felt a tap on my shoulder. I turned around just in time to see a meaty fist flying right at my face.
   I managed to dodge just enough so that he hit me in the cheek instead of the nose. I hit the ground like a sack of potatoes, already dazed. My vision was a little blurry and it looked like there were two guys hovering over me, although in a couple seconds everything focused and I realized that Jake Harbor, Varsity Quarterback and Adrienne’s boyfriend, was shaking his fist at me. “You stay away from my girlfriend!”
   For a second I contemplated getting up and fighting back, but then I saw that Jake was backed up by three of his football buddies and decided I was safer on the ground.
   “Hey, you!” A baritone voice rang out and we all turned to see Mr. Kuznetsov pointing a thick finger at Jake. “Yes, YOU, young man. We’re going to the Principal’s office!”
   “I didn’t do nothing!” Jake protested, holding his arms up in a ‘who me?’ gesture. “He tripped and I was trying to help him up.”
   “You punched him, unprovoked,” came back the firm response. I’d lucked out. While Coach K was in charge of basketball, he had no sympathy for football players.
   Sensing that I would now be safe if I got to my feet, I gingerly stood up and cradled my cheek. A small crowd had circled around us.
   “You,” Coach K pointed at me. “Go to the nurse’s office.”
   “I’m okay,” I said while wiggling my jaw.
   “Just go and get checked out. Don’t make me escort you.”
   “No, sir. I’m going,” I nodded my head, still holding my cheek.
   Coach then dropped his meaty paw onto Jake’s shoulder. “Let’s go, Jake. If you were gonna pull a stunt like this, you shoulda tried it BEFORE football season ended.”* * *
   The nurse put some topical ointment on my cheek and gave me some pain pills. She warned me that I’d have a bruise for a few days but there shouldn’t be any lasting damage. Then she excused me to go to lunch.
   The lunch line, usually a riot of sound, actually dropped ten decibels the instant I walked over. Dozens of eyes were suddenly on me as conversations stopped all throughout the area.
   I ignored them and went to get my food.
   Unfortunately, once I got to my usual table, I found that Megan and Cassidy were surrounded by friends who took up every available space remotely near them. Elaine Fukuhara wouldn’t look at me, and Daniel beside her shrugged apologetically but stayed next to his girlfriend.
   The Sanders twins giggled and stared at me, but someone next to them shushed them and as a group, my friends turned their backs on me. Even Kenny and Sung seemed cowed by the group decision. You remember what I said about mutual friends choosing sides? Well all of my friends seemed to have decided on choosing against me. Megan and Cassidy were popular in our crowd, and cheating was apparently not well-thought of.
   At first I looked over to another area. Stephanie Vo and some of the others were casual friends and might be willing to accept me, but they looked nervous when I looked their way as well. Same for James Kaito and his buddies. All of my previous friend-groups had included the“good kids”, and at least for right now, none of them wanted to go out on a limb and invite in the guy who’d cheated on his girlfriends.
   And then a voice I never would have expected called to me.“Hey, Ben!”
   I turned to see Adrienne Dennis waving to me while surrounded by a gaggle of Varsity cheerleaders and jocks. Her bright hazel eyes sparkled and her smile lit up the room.“Come sit with us!”
   Nervously, I turned my gaze to Megan and Cassidy, pleading with them for some kind of acceptance. Megan glared at me with undisguised hate before glancing down at her plate and ignoring me. Cassidy wouldn’t even look at me in the first place.
   I sighed and then picked up my shoulders. If I was going to sit with the popular chicks, I had to at least appear confident.
   Still carrying my lunch, I strode over while the girls made space for me next to Adrienne, several of them ogling me with obvious interest.“Uh, I’d love to Adrienne. But I don’t think Jake would be very happy with me if I did that.”
   Adrienne waved her hand as if shooing away a fly.“I don’t care what does or does not make Jake happy. I dumped him this morning. And… oh! What happened to your face?”
   I blushed and glanced down for a moment, certain the shiner on my cheek was getting even darker.“Yeah, well, like I said. Jake’s not very happy with me.”
   “He punched you?” Adrienne smiled like it was funny that her boyfriend clocked me.
   I shrugged.“Coach K dragged him off to the Principal’s office.”
   Adrienne snorted.“Football season is over. He’s got no more protection. Serves him right.” Then the gorgeous blonde patted the seat beside her. “Come. Sit.”
   Having nowhere else to go, I took a seat and Adrienne began making introductions.“This is Candy, that’s Summer, Mizuho, and—”
   “I know who you all are,” I grinned. EVERYONE knew who they were. Besides the Varsity athletes and cheerleaders, there were a couple of boyfriends and girlfriends who weren’t in the organized sports. But all were still some of the most popular people on campus.
   “Good!” Candy Carter, the beautiful, blue-eyed brunette on my left rubbed her hip against mine. “Andwe know whoyou are, Big Ben,” she said saucily.
   My life was SO WEIRD. I cheated on my girlfriends, and I end up sitting with the hottest girls in school? How the hell did this happen?* * *
   Adrienne walked me to my next class. She looked absolutely radiant, but I found myself staring straight ahead. I was still wracked with guilt over cheating on Megan and Cassidy. I still had lingering feelings for both of them, an attachment that went way beyond friendship, even if it wasn’t true love.
   And I also felt bad about my role in the rumor mill.“Look, Adrienne, I’m sorry about all the rumors going around. I’m not the kind of guy to brag about conquests.”
   Adrienne smiled sweetly at me.“Oh, I know you’re not. If you were trying to brag, you’d be with your buddies right now continuing to brag about how you fucked Adrienne Dennis!” She waved her arms theatrically. “Instead, your friends won’t talk to you right now.”
   “But I’m still the leak for why it all got out. I couldn’t handle the guilt. I had to tell Megan and Cassidy. I’m sure they told their friends and it spiraled out of control from there. I KNOW girls don’t like their sexual activity talked about and it’s my fault the rumors are going around.”
   The beautiful blonde chuckled.“It’s not all your fault. I leaked it too.”
   My eyes went up.“You did?”
   She shrugged.“I was getting tired of Jake. I mean, he’s cute and all. But he doesn’t have any great football scholarships next year and since the football season ended, his popularity has been dropping. This whole thing made for a convenient reason to break up with him.”
   I frowned.“That doesn’t explain why you’d want to tell people you slept with me. I’m certainly not the most popular guy in school.”
   Adrienne grinned.“You could be.” She squealed and wrapped herself around my left arm. “Gawd, Ben, you were INCREDIBLE in bed. I had more orgasms in one afternoon than I had in the past month with Jake. And when we were done, I just HAD to tell all my girlfriends.”
   My eyebrows went up and I stopped walking.“You promised you wouldn’t!”
   She stopped as well, rolled her eyes, and waved me off.“I KNEW you’d tell your girlfriends. When we were done, you just had that guilty look on your face.”
   I sighed in defeat and glanced down at the ground before picking my head up to evaluate the gorgeous girl standing before me.“So what now? You sampled me and now you’re done with me?”
   Adrienne smirked and batted her eyelashes while subconsciously rotating her body into a seductive pose. And with a wry grin, she purred,“After one afternoon like that, you really think I’m done with you?”
   There was such heat in her voice that I immediately felt my heart begin racing as lust crept into the corners of my mind. But at the same time, I was still in pain at the loss of Megan and Cassidy. Yeah, we’d gotten into a big fight and they’d snubbed me at lunch, but I felt like things weren’t entirely resolved with them just yet. “Adrienne, I don’t think I’d be very good boyfriend material for you. I don’t run in your kind of crowd.”
   “Who said anything about boyfriend? You’re just getting out of a relationship; I just dumped a guy. I don’t think either of us wants anything serious right now.” Then Adrienne reached out and grabbed the front of my shirt, tugging me towards her. “But… the next time I’ve got an itch that needs to be scratched… I know where you live.”
   My jaw quivered with panting lust. Adrienne just grinned and then released me. And before I could say another word, she spun around and strode off to her next class.
   I let my jaw drop as I stared at her ass all the way down the hall.* * *
   Megan and Cassidy avoided me for the rest of the school day. Even when I raced after the final period to Megan’s classroom, she pointedly ignored me when I tried to talk to her, putting up with my pleas for about fifty feet before just holding a hand up to my face and warding me away.
   Brooke, for once, was quiet for the entire drive home. She seemed to sense I wasn’t in the mood to put up with any of her usual antics. And when I pulled up in front of the house and kept the motor running, she didn’t even question me before getting out of the car and closing the door behind her.
   But just before I put the car in gear, my little sister turned around and asked,“Where are you going? You know, just in case I need to make a missing persons report because somebody murdered you and dumped your body in the ocean.”
   I glared at Brooke, who just had a little grin on her face. But I answered,“Megan’s first. Then to Cassidy’s house.”
   Brooke nodded.“Okay. Be home by 6:30.” Then she bounced up the sidewalk and into the house.* * *
   My spine went rigidly still as I jerked back in surprise.“Uh, good afternoon, Mrs. Kwan.” Apparently, Megan’s mom DID come home early from time to time.
   Megan’s mother folded her arms over her chest and gave me a withering stare. “Benjamin…”
   How did parents put so much gravity into something as simple as my full name?“Uh…” I fumbled for a second before spitting out, “Is Megan home?”
   “She is, but I don’t think she wants to see you.”
   “Please, Mrs. Kwan. I just want to talk to her.”
   “Look Ben. I don’t know what happened between you two, but she’s pretty upset right now. She’s been a wreck all weekend. Megan said the two of you broke up and from what I gather, she’s blaming it all on you.”
   I sighed with mild relief. At least Megan wasn’t blabbing to the whole world that I’d cheated. And since Mrs. Kwan didn’t even know I’d been dating Cassidy at the same time, I was hoping that little secret could stay a secret. “Please, Mrs. Kwan. It IS all my fault. I’ve been trying to apologize but she won’t return my calls and she’s completely shutting me out at school.”
   I supposed there was one significant thing about having a“nice boy” reputation with the parents. Mrs. Kwan looked at me and the earnest expression on my face, and she seemed to soften. “Hold on. Lemme see if she’ll talk to you. Wait here.”
   I obediently remained on the porch and fidgeted for what felt like an hour as Mrs. Kwan went in to fetch Megan. Every now and again I could hear raised voices, but I couldn’t make out any of the words. I desperately hoped Megan wasn’t spelling out in greater detail exactly what my transgressions had been.
   At long last, I heard heavy thumping as Megan rapidly tromped down the stairs. She showed up at the door a moment later.“Go away, Ben.”
   “Megan, please. Let me explain.”
   “What’s there to explain? Did you do it or didn’t you?”
   I hung my head.“I did, I did. I’m sorry.”
   “Sorry doesn’t cut it,” she barked and then tilted her head back. “I can’tbelieve I let myself think you were different. But you’re just like every other boy out there, thinking with your dick.”
   “Megan, please. Gimme a chance to make it up to you. I love being with you,” I pleaded.
   She shook her head.“If you really loved me, you wouldn’t have done it.”
   “Megan…”
   She pursed her lips together. And when spoke again her voice was icy cold.“You know what? I don’t think I ever loved you either, Ben. I really loved the idea of being in love. Of having a boyfriend. But you?” Megan rolled her eyes away and backed up a step. “You were just a waste of my time.”
   And then she slammed the door in my face.* * *
   I was still reeling from the hatred in Megan’s voice when I pulled up outside Cassidy’s house. A part of me wondered if I had the energy to deal with another rejection should an encounter with Cassidy turn nasty, but the only alternative was tonot try talking to her and that just wasn’t an option.
   After ringing the doorbell, I caught motion from the window to my left and I saw a copper-haired head peeking out with a cordless phone pressed to the person’s ear. The glare on the window prevented me from seeing exactly who it was, but a moment later, Cassidy opened the door while cradling the phone to the side of her face.
   “Uh-huh… Uh-huh… Look Meg, if you never really cared about him, it wouldn’t hurt this much then, would it?” She was nodding into the phone. She rolled her eyes and then sighed. “Of course I’m just as upset as you. I just handle it a bit differently, that’s all.”
   I stared at Cassidy rather oddly as she waved me into the house and then silently closed the door behind her. In stark contrast to Megan, she looked pleased to see me.
   “Uh-huh… Uh-huh… Yeah, I’m sure he’s coming over here soon as well. Yeah… yeah… oh, he’s pulling up outside. I’ll talk to you later. Bye, Meg.” Cassidy hit END on the phone with an audible beep and then smirked at me, tossing the cordless phone onto the couch. Then before I could react, Cassidy stepped forward, wrapped her arms around my head, and pressed her lips to mine in a firm kiss.
   I’d been so unbelievably tense after the hateful showdown with Megan. And I felt all of that being washed away in a single kiss as Cassidy devoured me. I sighed and moaned in relief thatsomeone seemed to still love me.
   When she pulled back, Cassidy sighed happily and groaned,“Oh, Bennn…”
   “Uh, Cass? What’s going on?” I stammered while holding the cute redhead in my arms. “Aren’t you supposed to be pissed at me?”
   “Oh, I was. I was REALLY mad. But I got over it.” Cassidy waved while pulling me back towards the living room. She sighed and sat down on the couch, taking care to pick up the cordless phone and set it on the coffee table. Then she patted the seat next to her.
   “Over it? Cassidy, I cheated on you.” I used her full name deliberately while taking the seat. I felt like I didn’t have the right to call her ‘Freckles’ anymore.
   “Don’t remind me,” she screwed her face up. “But I can sort of understand. Daniel told us the story. Adrienne stripped completely naked and ordered you to fuck her. And she IS gorgeous.”
   “That doesn’t excuse it.”
   “No, it doesn’t. I’m not saying what you did is right, but I can understand it. Hell, if I had a dick I might want a go at her. You’re still just a guy, Ben. I think you told me that a dozen times whenever you tried to cop a feel of my boobs when we were first dating.”
   She paused and then lowered her voice, trying to mimic me.“Sorry. I’m just a guy.”
   I pinched my eyebrows together, not daring to hope just yet.“You’re being very generous.”
   She exhaled.“I… I’m not happy with you, Ben. I’d much rather you hadn’t done it. But I don’t hate you like Megan does. The thing is, this isn’t the first time I’ve been cheated on. Drew hooked up with Donna Kincaid more than once, and I’m sure she wasn’t the only slut he banged while we were together. Compared to Drew Walker, Ben, you’re a saint.”
   Now I started to hope. I leaned forward and a pleading expression came over my face.“Does that mean you can forgive me?”
   A wan smile crossed Cassidy’s face. “Yes, Ben. I do.” She held my cheek and then kissed me again.
   But then Cassidy pulled away, looked off into the distance, and sighed heavily.“But… there’s a problem.”
   I was still floating on the idea that Cassidy could forgive me.“What?”
   “Megan,” Cassidy exhaled. “There’s no way I can keep dating you unless I can get her to come around, too. It would destroy our relationship if I stayed with you, Ben, don’t you see? She’d kill me for dating you without her, and without her approval. And as much as I love being with you,having a boyfriend, and getting all thatwonderful sex, I… well… I love her more than I love you. If I have to choose, I’ll choose my best friend.”
   I sagged.
   “Don’t lose hope. I WILL work on her, Ben. She really does love you. I think she fell in love with you the first time you went down on her. So I’ve been trying to talk her into letting you back into the circle of friends, even if she doesn’t want to get back together. I figure from there…maybe… we can all go back to the way things were!” Cassidy hummed. “I LOVED Mondays…”
   I felt a twitch in my balls.“Today is a Monday,” I said softly.
   “NO, Ben,” Cassidy barked sternly. “Down boy,” she told the boner rising in my crotch.
   I grimaced and leaned back.
   “See?” She grinned. “Just a guy. Just a 16-year-old boy. We’re in the middle of this huge breakup and you’re still ready to fuck at the drop of a hat.”
   “Sorry.”
   “Don’t be. I’d love to fuck right now,” Cassidy hummed. “But I already have to admit to Megan that I kissed you because I’m still in love with you. But I would NOT be able to get away with admitting I fucked you.”
   I frowned.“So you’ll talk to her?”
   “Of course. She’ll eventually come around.”
   I winced.“How long will that take? Right now, she’s got the whole crew treating me like a leper.”
   Cassidy sighed.“You DID cheat on us, Ben. The girls don’t look too kindly on that, and Elaine’s telling Megan never to accept you back. Abigail and Allison seem more interested in trying to jump you since you’re available, but for now they’re sticking with the group. And the guys, well… they’ll follow along with us girls. I think one on one they’ll have no problem hanging out with you and chatting, but you’re certainly persona non grata at the lunch table.”
   “How long?” I repeated. “And what am I supposed to do until then?”
   Cassidy sighed and touched my face.“I don’t know. Megan’s a stubborn girl. When she makes up her mind to something, it’s very difficult to change it. She’s kinda bipolar that way.”
   I sighed in defeat.“No girlfriends. No friends. It’s kind of scary.”
   Cassidy grabbed my hands and squeezed them.“I still love you Ben. Doesn’t that count for something?”
   I managed a little smile.“Of course, Freckles.” She lit up at the nickname and I leaned forward to peck Cassidy on the lips.
   She sighed happily.“Now get out of here Ben, before I lose my resolve and fuck you anyways.”
   I stayed rooted in my seat, clearly with no intention of moving.
   “Go!” Cassidy laughed as she slapped the side of my arm. Then she was already grabbing her discman and putting the headphones over her ears, turning away from me.
   I sighed and got up to let myself out.* * *
   I was expecting Tuesday to be even worse than Monday. At least on Monday, most of my friends didn’t get the “stay-away-from-Ben” memo until lunchtime, meaning that the people I talked to between classes were still cordial to me. But by the afternoon, they were all avoiding me and I now anticipated a full-day of being ostracized.
   But Tuesday actually turned out to be quite pleasant.
   Oh, it started off shitty enough. As luck would have it, Megan and Elaine were walking down the hall in the opposite direction from me before first period. I summed up all my courage and went over to them, a hopeful smile on my face as I said,“Hi, Megan. Hey, Elaine.”
   “Fuck off, asshole,” Elaine spat at me and stomped away. Megan just sighed and refused to meet my eyes, walking away as well.
   I looked forlornly after the girls and then turned my head around to see Daniel and Sung with three of our other friends. I went to say hello but Sung just shook his head and brushed past me.
   Daniel at least had the decency to stop and say,“Sorry, Ben.” But he was the only one. Teenagers could be really cruel.
   Dejectedly, I sleepwalked through all my classes before lunch, barely aware. It felt easier to be numb than to feel the pain of being an outcast from my supposed friends.
   But then everything started to change at lunchtime. I didn’t even bother trying to go to my usual lunch table. In my morose state, I fully intended to find a quiet corner and just disappear. But the next thing I knew, I felt a hip bump into mine and there was Candy, the beautiful, blue-eyed brunette smiling at me. “Join us for lunch again?”
   “Uh, sure,” I stammered before standing up straighter and smiling. The grin on Candy’s face was infectious and it was impossible not to smile around her.
   Giggling she bounced along (and her big boobs bounced along) until we got to the cheerleader/jock table.“Hey A.D.! Look what I found!” Candy gushed to Adrienne as I was directed to sit between them again.
   “Heyyy, Ben,” Adrienne flashed her bright hazel eyes at me as I sat down. “It’s good to see you,” she said in a husky voice, and I felt a hand creeping along my leg…
   … from the opposite side. My eyes went wide and I turned to see Candy grinning at me. I’d gotten hard from the intimate caress and Candy moved her hand over my cock, rubbing it experimentally while I looked at her in shock. After all, Candy’s boyfriend Trevor was sitting right on the other side of her. But then the hot brunette blinked and removed the hand, picking up her fork and starting her meal, pretending as if she’d never even touched me.
   Absentmindedly, Candy sighed,“You weren’t bragging, A.D. He’s got a nice weapon in there.”
   “Back off bitch,” Adrienne growled to her friend without any real heat in her voice. “This one’s mine.”
   Candy swallowed her bite and then sighed.“It’s yourfault, A.D. You’re the one who had to go and brag about what a stud Ben was in the sack. You KNOW you got my juices flowing when you told me all the nasty details.”
   Adrienne giggled.“And I also know that you drove straight over to Trevor’s place so he could fuck your brains out.”
   Candy sighed happily and glanced at her boyfriend, who had a smug grin on his face.“That he did…”
   My eyes were darting back and forth between the gorgeous girls on either side of me. Based on the frank conversation, I gathered that I was in quite a different world.* * *
   Adrienne walked me to my next class. We chatted casually and for the first time all day, I felt relaxed. Being alone for the entire morning was hitting me harder than I’d expected, and the craziness of the fifteen-way conversations at lunch hadn’t completely solved the matter, since I wasn’t a big part of those discussions.
   But now it was just me and a gorgeous girl, chatting together without anyone else in the world involved.
   Well, except for Brooke. My little sister was with a gaggle of her friends passing in the opposite direction when Brooke shifted course enough to bring them closer to us. I was about to roll my eyes in annoyance at my little freshman sister daring to speak to me during school hours, but instead she went straight for my walking partner.
   “Hi, Adrienne,” Brooke said brightly.
   A warm smile spread across Adrienne’s face and she beamed at my little sister. “Hi, Brooke. How’s it going?”
   “Great!” By now, our respective momentum had us passing each other. “See ya later!” Brooke said cheerily.
   “Laters, Brooke,” Adrienne said with a smile and then we continued on.
   Before we got five feet further away, Jennifer Vo, of Brooke’s little acolytes gasped, “Ohmigod! You just talked to Adrienne Dennis! She’s like the most beautiful girl in school!”
   I glanced over just in time to see Adrienne’s little grin. Shaking my head, we continued on.* * *
   After class, I waited in my usual spot for Brooke to come out when Adrienne sidled up to me.“Waiting for your sister?”
   “Yeah.”
   “You’re a good brother.” Adrienne smiled at me.
   “What? For schlepping my sister to and from school?” I smirked. “That doesn’t make me a good brother. That’s just what I’msupposed to do.”
   “Nah, not that,” Adrienne giggled. “I just see the way she looks at you. She loves her big brother. She’s not always thrilled with you, but she respects you.”
   I shrugged, unsure how to handle the complement. But then the happy expression on the blonde’s face disappeared. Adrienne sighed and looked down. “I wish all big brothers could’ve been like you.”
   I arched an eyebrow and thought back. It took me a second, but then I remembered that Adrienne had a big brother as well. He was quite a bit older and I never really saw much of him.“Adam, right? How much older is he?”
   Adrienne frowned and she took on a far-away gaze.“Yeah, Adam. He’s, uh, seven years older than me. Haven’t really seen him since he left for college when I was 11.”
   I nodded but noted the bitterness in her voice.“I take it you and he didn’t get along so well.”
   Adrienne turned her head away.“I’d rather not talk about it, Ben.”
   “Sure, sure,” I backpedaled quickly. “So what’s up?”
   “Nothing,” Adrienne shrugged. “What, all of a sudden I can’t hang out and talk to you?”
   I arched an eyebrow and then suddenly turned and stood up straight. I looked straight into the pretty girl’s hazel eyes and took a deep breathe. Quite calmly, I asked, “Adrienne, why are you doing this?”
   “Doing what?”
   “This,” I waved my hands between the two of us. “Hanging out with me. Talking with me. Inviting me to eat lunch with you guys.”
   “Isn’t it enough that I want to spend time with you?”
   “But why? We lived on the same street since I moved down here when we were 10. You never had an interest in being my friend back then. And even when I supposedly grew up and became a new man, you’d talk to me, but nothing like this. So what’s different? You feeling guilty because you seduced me?”
   Adrienne pouted and glanced down at the ground. It was one of the first times I’d ever seen her usually poised demeanor show a crack. “Well… uh… yeah, a little. I mean, none of your friends will talk to you, and I know it’s my fault. If I hadn’t seduced you, you’d still have your girlfriends and all your friends.”
   I sighed.“It’s not all your fault. I could’ve said ‘no’.”
   Adrienne fixed me with a little grin.“Ben, look at me.”
   I looked at her and almost immediately felt a stirring in my balls. She was THAT hot.
   As if to punctuate my thoughts, the 16-year-old babe began running her hands up and down her own curves.“I know how I look. I know I’m gorgeous. And believe me when I say it’s not your fault that you had sex with me. I’ve never had a guy turn me down.”
   I shrugged.“Is that it? Pity?”
   “Well, no,” Adrienne tilted her head. “I like talking to you, Ben. You’re not vapid and clueless like some of my girlfriends. You’re not a dumb jock like most of my guy friends. You’re eloquent and comfortable using words with more than two-syllables, and I happen to think intelligence is kinda sexy. And seriously, you’re probably the first ‘nice guy’ I’ve ever had sex with.”
   I looked down at the bulge in my jeans.“I’m not really a ‘nice guy’, Adrienne.”
   She followed my gaze and giggled.“That’s just being a guy. Period.” And then she stepped closer to me, slowly leaning in until her crotch was rubbing up against my erection. Her arms went around my shoulders and she moved in until her face was just an inch away from mine. “And besides, I have an ulterior motive for wantingto spend time with you.”
   I sighed. Despite her physical proximity, I felt a little of my ardor fading away.“Always an ulterior motive.”
   “Yeah,” Adrienne grinned and bumped her nose against mine, holding herself so incredibly close to me. And then she husked, “You gave me the greatest fuck of my young life, Ben. So I figure… If I spend more time with you, next time it won’t be so hard to get you to fuck me like that again.”
   “YOU FUCKING WHORE!” Someone yelled from what sounded like thirty feet away. But once Adrienne turned her head to see what the commotion was, she suddenly released me and backed off while we both watched Megan running at a full sprint towards us.
   Instinctively, I darted in between Megan and Adrienne and practically caught her as she ran full tilt into me.“Whoa! Whoa!” I yelled while trying to restrain a kicking and thrashing Megan, who seemed hell-bent on getting to Adrienne and clawing the taller girl’s eyes out.
   “I’LL KILL YOU, BITCH!” Megan screamed while still spending more effort trying to reach around me to Adrienne. If she’d focused on freeing herself from my grasp I wasn’t sure I’d be able to stop her.
   “Megan! Megan!” I yelled and physically pushed the petite brunette back.
   “Stay away from him! You stay away from him!” My ex-girlfriend shrieked.
   Adrienne was suddenly right behind me and dangerously close to Megan’s reach. “Why? Why? You don’t even want him anymore! You won’t talk to him and you’ve got all your little friends staying away from him, too!”
   “Because of you!” Megan literally spat, her glob of phlegm not quite reaching Adrienne and splattering to the concrete behind me.
   Being spit at only pissed of Adrienne even more.“Not my fault you weren’t woman enough to keep him,” the busty blonde growled.
   “Aaaggghhh!” Megan yelled in frustration and then started thrashing in the opposite direction, finally freeing herself from my grasp. And then without a backwards glance, she stomped off into the parking lot towards her car.
   I was hunched over and panting for breath after exerting so much energy trying to contain Megan’s rage. Adrienne just walked up behind me and put her hand on my shoulder, standing with me and staring down the crowd.
   Then I saw Cassidy, Elaine, Daniel, and Brooke standing about fifteen feet away. Elaine looked pissed. If she hadn’t hated me before, she certainly hated me now. Daniel looked sad. He knew if he was forced to choose between his girlfriend and me, his friend, he’d have to choose his girlfriend. And Cassidy was shaking her head in disappointment. If she was still trying to get Megan to forgive me and get us all back together, her job had just gotten MUCH harder.
   Brooke on the other hand, just smirked in amusement.
   When did my life turn into such a soap opera?* * *
   The entire drive home, my mind was still swirling with potential ramifications of the parking lot showdown between Megan and Adrienne. And all over me… ME!
   I wasn’t a popularity seeker. I wasn’t a jock or the best-looking or anything. I was just me: a 16-year-old boy trying to get laid. But I had my ex-girlfriend and the hottest chick in school literally getting into a spitting fight over me.
   Brooke thought it was hilarious. She commented to that effect for the entire ride home before I snapped at her,“Shut up! This is not funny!”
   “Why? You’ve got girls fighting over you, Ben. By tomorrow, the whole school will know about it. Add this thing to the rumors about you and Adrienne already out there and whether you like it or not, your name will be recognizable to everyone on campus. People are gonna think you’re with Adrienne now. You’ll be one of the famous, popular guys, Ben.”
   I winced at my little sister.“You’re just a freshman. What do you know about popularity and the rumor mill?”
   She shrugged.“I’m a girl. I know EVERYTHING.”
   I sighed and just drove home. Upon arrival, nothing made me happier than to just flop onto the bed and close my eyes on the wild and crazy world outside.
   But then the phone rang. I groaned and for a moment hoped that Brooke would answer it. Most of the afternoon calls were for her anyways. But as eldest kid, it was my job and I reached over to grab the handset in my bedroom.
   “Ben?”
   I jerked my head up as I recognized the voice.“Cassidy?”
   “Can you come over? We need to talk.” And she meant “talk”. There was no sexual innuendo in Cassidy’s voice. She was dead serious, and I had no doubt it was about what had gone down this afternoon.
   I sighed. I needed to salvage whatever I could out of this or risk losing my friends forever.“I’ll be right there.”* * *
   “Hey,” Cassidy opened her arms as I stepped through the door.
   Automatically I moved into her grasp as we hugged and then exchanged short pecks on the lips.
   Still holding me in her arms, she pulled her head back and licked her lips experimentally. Then fixing me with a curious look, Cassidy asked,“Since we broke up, how many girls have you kissed?”
   I blinked twice in confusion.“Uh, since you and Megan officially dumped me on Friday? Uh, none. Well, actually, just you.”
   Cassidy smiled softly.“Not Adrienne?”
   I shook my head and honestly replied.“No. Just you.”
   Her smile became wider. And then she sighed and released me, turning around towards the couch.“I believe you, Ben. But the problem is, the whole school thinks you and Adrienne are an item now.”
   I sighed and followed the redhead over to the couch.“Brooke said that, too.”
   “Are you?”
   I scrunched my eyebrows together and looked at my ex.“No! I mean, Adrienne wanted to fuck me that time just because she could. And might I add, she only got the idea because the rumor mill was out of control about what a stud I was in bed! Rumors you and Megan had to have put out there!”
   “You ARE a stud!” Cassidy exclaimed and then blushed. “We couldn’t help but brag to our friends.”
   “Well maybe if you hadn’t, we wouldn’t be here now,” I said in exasperation.
   Cassidy’s eyes hardened. “Maybe if you’d kept your dick in your pants, we wouldn’t be here now.”
   I deflated. Cassidy could be understanding that I’d cheated, but we both knew it was still wrong. I took a breath and said, “The point is, Adrienne just wanted a lay. If I’d been able to live with the guilt that’s all it would have ever been. But I’m pretty sure she doesn’t want me as a boyfriend.”
   Cassidy looked slightly pained.“Then what was all that this afternoon?”
   I shook my head and leaned back into the couch.“I don’t know. She said she felt sorry for me being ostracized and all alone.” I sighed and looked forlornly at Cassidy. “You don’t know what it’s like to walk into the quad and realize you’ve got no one to sit with.”
   Cassidy bit her lip and looked at the floor.“I’m sorry about that. I really am. But I’ve got to support my best friend right now. I wish it didn’t have to be this way.”
   I shook my head.“I’m not going be invited back in anytime soon, am I?”
   Cassidy sighed.“Probably not.”
   “So what do you expect me to do? Just turn into a loner and be all by myself until Megan forgives me? That’s not a life, Cassidy. I’ve got to move on.”
   “Can’t you wait just a little bit?” She pleaded.
   “Can you tell me how long? A few days? A week? Next year?”
   From the way she shrugged her shoulders and looked away, Cassidy clearly didn’t know. “I don’t want to lose you, Ben. Save for this one fuck-up, you’re the greatest guy I ever met.”
   I sighed.“I’m nothing special, Freckles. I’m sorry, I’m just a guy.”
   Cassidy closed her eyes and clenched her fists.“That’s ALWAYS your excuse.”
   We both went quiet for a long minute, both of us staring away while lost to our thoughts.
   “So what now?” Cassidy finally broke the silence.
   I hung my head.“You make a choice, just like everyone else. Me or Megan. And my bit of advice, go with Megan.”
   “You know I will. She’s my best friend. But I want you BOTH. I want things the way they WERE.”
   I wanted to say‘I do too’, but as I took a deep breath, I realized that it wasn’t true anymore. Things could never go back to the way they were, and I’d come to accept that. I’d made a decision. I’d fucked Adrienne, and that one glorious event had set me onto a completely new path. There was no going back and undoing the past. I stood up. “We’re talking in circles, Cassidy.”
   “Ben…” she pleaded. My use of her given name deflated her hopes.
   “Look. Even if the three of us got back together, Megan would never trust me again. Things can’t ever be the same. All that’s left is to move on. I’ve gotta figure out how to best go on with my life. You should too.” I turned to leave.
   “I’ll see you tomorrow, Ben?” Cassidy asked with hope in her eyes.
   “Sure. Always.”* * *
   Wednesday, my life set down my completely new path.
   It all started when I got to my locker before first period. I had exchanged out all the books I needed and was just closing it when I heard the decibel level around me suddenly quiet down. I closed the locker door and turned to see Adrienne walking up to me. The general crowd had hushed to see what would happen.
   And what happened was that Adrienne grabbed my head and planted on me the hottest, juiciest, fiercest kiss I’d felt in a long time. A nuclear bomb lit off behind my eyes and I felt all the oxygen in my body being sucked away. The hairs on the back of my neck tingled and every square inch of my skin felt like it was on fire.
   When she pulled away, I was left dazed by the intensity of her kiss, and Adrienne grinned at me.“Walk me to my next class, honey?” she asked sweetly.
   I was still dizzy, but automatically, I replied,“Sure thing, babe.”
   Adrienne hooked her arm through mine and started off. I don’tthink anyone realized she was leading me as my feet struggled to plant themselves forward one at a time.
   We started off down the hall and once in motion, there was less of a crowd immediately surrounding us. Various people would whisper and point at us, but Adrienne kept us striding along at a good pace.
   Eventually, I found my voice.“Adrienne, what’s going on?”
   “What’s it look like? You’re my new boyfriend, Ben.”
   “Boyfriend?”
   “The entire school thinks we’re together anyways.”
   “Me? I’m a nobody.”
   “You’re good enough for me to choose, Ben. That makes you a somebody. And it’s not like I’m losing points for dating you. You’re tall enough, you’re handsome, and you walk with confidence. And Candy vouched for you having a big cock. Just because you weren’t on anybody’s radar before your growth spurt doesn’t mean you’re not a good catch today. If I hadn’t snagged you first, some of the other girls were already talking about poaching you from your little girlfriends.”
   “I thought you didn’t want another boyfriend right away.”
   She waggled her head.“I said I didn’t want to get serious. So we won’t get serious. And I wasn’t planning to start publicly dating you. A screw on the side here and there, yeah, but not publicly dating. That was then.”
   “What changed?”
   Adrienne sighed.“Megan. Yesterday’s little showdown kinda put us together. If I don’t hook up with you it might look like I’m scared of her. I can’t have that.”
   I winced.“I don’t want you dating me just for some… political… public image thing.”
   “No, no, don’t take this the wrong way, Ben. I like you. I really like you. Megan just moved up my timetable, that’s all.”
   “And what if I don’t wanna be your boyfriend?”
   Adrienne stopped in her tracks, which stopped me as well. She frowned and tilted her head as if she’d never even considered the possibility. “Why wouldn’t you want to be? You don’t want to be Adrienne Dennis’ boyfriend?”
   I immediately thought of Cassidy, who was still secretly hoping we’d get back together. “This is all really sudden. You just broke up with Jake on Monday. And honestly, I’m still half in love with my girlfriends, Adrienne.”
   She smiled and touched my cheek.“You’re sweet, Ben. But this is the way it’s gotta be. Your friends won’t talk to you. And my friends will accept you more easily if we’re dating. Besides,” Adrienne grinned and leaned into me, pressing those big tits against my chest. Her voice dropped to a seductive purr. “Whoever is my boyfriend gets certain… regular privileges… with my body.”
   SCHWING.
   “You busy this afternoon, Ben? I don’t have cheer practice.” Adrienne’s hazel eyes flashed as she leered at me. “I’ve got some time for myboyfriend to visit me and fuck my brains out.”
   Her tongue came out across her lip as she put on a sultry face that would have been right at home in a porno movie.“Don’t you wanna rock my world, Ben?”
   My mouth watered as my mind recalled the incredible sex session with Adrienne from last week. My jaw quivered as I grunted,“Yeah. Uh, I think I can make the time.”
   Adrienne giggled and then planted one of those nuclear kisses on me.
   I was floating on a cloud of bliss when she released me. But then my new girlfriend took a step back and eyed me rather critically. And with a shrug, she waved her hand at my jeans and T-shirt and said,“Of course, if you’re going to be my boyfriend, we’re going to have to work on your fashion sense.”
   “Huh?” I frowned.
   Adrienne’s eyes just lit up as she looped her arm through mine. “You’ll see!”
   The rest of the day flew by in a blur. In some ways, it was a rehash of Tuesday. Megan and Elaine looked at me hatefully. The rest of my old friends tiptoed around me. And I got a lot more respect and appraising looks from the general student body. It was obvious to all: I was now Adrienne Dennis’ boyfriend.
   Per usual, Adrienne and Candy invited me to eat at their lunch table. At least on this day, I started to involve myself in the conversation. If this was to be my new circle of friends, I might as well start getting to know them.
   Cheerleaders and jocks weren’t really my style. We didn’t have that much in common. But school was universal and it was easy to bitch about teachers and listen in on the usual gossip. Some of the guys even invited me to join their pickup basketball game when I expressed confidence in my shooting ability. Nothing Varsity level, but I’d hold my own against the baseball and football jocks.
   It was a completely different world. Last week I was with old friends I’d hung out with since fifth grade. Today, I was with the popular crowd, chatting with people I barely knew and feeling slightly out of place. That’s not to say it was bad. The guys were friendly enough and the girls flirted with me, and no 16-year-old boy can ever feel really bad when beautiful girls flirt with them.
   And besides, right next to me was the most beautiful girl in school… my girlfriend… holding my hand and whispering dirty thoughts into my ear.
   It was a whole new world.* * *
   Adrienne was holding my hand as we headed out to the parking lot after school ended. She whispered in my ear all the naughty things she was going to do to me that afternoon, and by the time we got to the lot I was half-ready to just drop the gorgeous blonde onto the sidewalk and fuck her right there.
   But as we emerged from the school buildings, a solitary figure standing before us stopped me dead in my tracks. Her coppery hair fluttered in the wind, her arms folded tightly across her chest. Cassidy looked simultaneously angry and frightened. And as Adrienne and I approached, I realized my ex-girlfriend was actually hugging herself and struggling to keep from crying.
   I looked at Adrienne, who dropped my hand and nodded me over. So alone, I took the last few steps towards Cassidy, who trembled as I came up to her.
   “This is it? You’re with her now? We’re really broken up? It’s over?” Cassidy’s eyes canted to the sides, darting her gaze to Adrienne as she shuddered at the razor’s edge between composure and sobbing.
   I sighed.“I wish it wasn’t. But things can never go back to exactly the way they were. Too much has happened now.”
   “It’s so stupid! I’ve forgiven you, Ben! I want US to get back together! I never realized this whole thing with Megan would be so fucking complicated!” Cassidy whined. And then she let out a long exhalation. The air hissed out of her for what felt like minutes, and when she was done, she seemed to have shrunk a few inches. “I’m not giving up. I’ll still try to talk Megan into forgiving you.”
   “Thanks. I appreciate it, Freckles.”
   Cassidy frowned and then leaned into me, wrapping her arms around my neck and kissing me firmly. There was a wail of sorrow in her moan, and for a moment, my heart sank. She was kissing me like it was the last time.
   When she did pull away, there were tears rolling down Cassidy’s cheeks. I brushed them away with my thumbs as I held her head in my hands, and then softly kissed her again.
   “I really think I loved you, Ben. I mean, I thought I was in love with Drew, but it was so different with you.”
   “Me, too,” I agreed. Cassidy had always been giving, understanding, horny, and sweet. I couldn’t have asked for a better High School girlfriend. But I felt a sadness at the finality of our words.
   “Look, this isn’t over-over,” she sniffled. “I mean, we’ve still got more than a year of High School left. A lot can change.” She tried to laugh quietly. “You can’t stay with Miss Popular forever, can you?”
   I shrugged. I had NO idea what the future held for me and Adrienne.
   “And I’ll keep in touch. Megan thinks I’m being blind for still wanting to even talk to you, but she understands. If she wasn’t so stubborn she’d be right next to me trying to figure this out.”
   I managed a small smile.“We don’t have to work EVERYTHING out. Right now, I’d settle for getting my friends back. And by that I mean you and Megan. I really miss hanging out with you guys.”
   Cassidy sniffled.“Me, too.”
   I kissed her cheek, hugged her tightly, and then turned around. To my surprise, Megan had arrived as well, standing well apart from and half-glaring at Adrienne while watching me and Cassidy.
   I heard Cassidy sigh and then lean into kiss my cheek. And then without looking back, she walked away from me. Megan turned as her best friend approached and the two of them headed off.
   I had to admit, it hurt like HELL to see them leaving, even more than when they’d broken up with me. These past few days, I hurt to find my girlfriends and regular friends all shunning me. But seeing Megan and Cassidy now departing had so much more finality to it that I felt like my heart was being ripped out of my chest.
   Adrienne came up next to me and wrapped her arm around my waist. And then in a quiet voice, she said,“Come with me, Ben. I’ll make you forget you were ever with them.”
   Right now, with all the pain I felt inside, that sounded like a REALLY good idea.* * *
   Have you ever watched a movie and been blown away by how great it was? Have you ever gone back and re-watched the movie and been even more impressed as you noticed all the little details that made the movie so spectacular in the first place?
   That was what it was like to have sex with Adrienne a second time.
   The first time had been incredible. She’d gotten me off six times. I’d spurted into all three of her holes. And the orgasms I’d had were simply mind-blowing.
   Less than a week later, we were fucking again. I didn’t cum as many times as before. But now that I wasn’t so in awe of the moment, I noticed a LOT more details and together, we had an even BETTER experience.
   We started in the living room. Now that she wasn’t in a rush to seduce me before I chickened out and ran away, Adrienne took her time by putting on some mood music and slowly stripping out of her clothing in a seductive dance. I was drooling as layer after layer was removed, and by the time she popped her bra with her back to me and then turned around to proudly show off those glorious tits, I HAD completely forgotten about my ex-girlfriends. How could I possibly think of anyone else but the gorgeous half-naked creature before me?
   Wearing just a black thong, Adrienne then gave me my first ever lapdance while I absorbed all those details about her body I’d been too rushed to notice before. I traced the curvature of her breasts and noted the perfection of her nipple placement and the exact pink shade of her areolas. I observed her creamy skin, picking out the very few spots or blemishes that merely signaled her as human without detracting at all from her otherwise flawless appearance.
   I felt my body flush with fever as Adrienne ground her pubic bone against my crotch, rubbing herself on my boner. Her breasts were warm and pressed up against my cheeks, filling my nostrils with the scent of her skin. And when she tilted her head down and planted another nuclear kiss on my lips, I felt like I could melt into nothingness and be completely satisfied with my life.
   My mind floated away on a cloud of arousal and bliss. I felt Adrienne’s touch at a hundred different points of my skin. I wasn’t sure if she was rubbing my face, holding my wrists, or stroking my legs. Maybe she was doing all three. All I knew was that my eyes were closed and she was the source of the pleasure tingling through every last inch of my body. And then suddenly, all that pleasure was focused right on my cock, and I blinked my eyes open to see the golden-haired goddess kneeling between my naked legs, my prick firmly lodged into the back of her throat with her hot lips squeezed around the very base of my cock.
   “Ohhh, Adrienne…” I sighed happily. And as she continued to deep-throat me, I felt my mental awareness slowly return as I focused in on the delightful sensations she was inducing in my dick.
   Once I was firmly back in the real world, Adrienne then stood up and held her hand out to me.“Take me to heaven, Ben.”
   So I did.
   I was in a zone. It was as if Adrienne’s strip-tease and lapdance had brought me to a sexual nirvana where everything was clear. I understood where she wanted me to touch her and with how much pressure. I understood exactly what she needed for me to bring her the greatest amount of pleasure. And after she squirted her honey into my face, just like last time, I understood that she wanted to now be filled up with my thick, throbbing cock.
   In a single lunge I skewered her, and the most beautiful girl in school was suddenly clutching me tightly to her body, cooing in my ear how wonderful I was making her feel.“Oh gawd, Ben! Oh my gawd! Take me! Deeper! Fuck me, Ben! So good!”
   Like a smoothly oiled piston I moved in and out of the 16-year-old babe’s tight tunnel, ramming her without mercy and yet feeling like we were tenderly making love. Her hands rubbed the muscles of my back as they flexed and tightened in our fucking motions. Her legs hooked around my thighs, her toes straining downwards as an indicator of the force she was putting into her own hips, driving up to meet my every thrust.
   In my Zen state, I fucked Adrienne tirelessly. Over and over I pounded her without slowing. My heartbeat remained steady despite the exertion, and the sweat soon began running off both our bodies as we energetically flung ourselves at each other, lost in the delirium of madly passionate sex.
   I grunted in harmony with Adrienne’s repeated cries of, “Fuck me! Pound me! Unngh!” The metronomic rhythm of our panting just a bass soundtrack to the melody of her ecstatic cries.
   I paid careful attention when Adrienne came the first time, her body clenching up while I continued to rut into her cunt without pause. I watched the golden twinkling light in her hazel eyes as she came and the way her white teeth sparkled as she gaped her mouth open to cry out. I felt the subtle shudders in her arms as the orgasm swept through her body, and distinctly noted the sudden flush of lubrication at our joining to help smoothen our motions.
   The second time she came, I noted that I had to dig just a bit deeper to keep pumping through her incredibly tight pussy as she spasmed with pure physical delight. I compared the way her eyes rolled back in her head as she seemed on the verge of passing out again, but just barely managed to ride out her orgasm before going limp beneath me, her hips twitching spasmodically as I didn’t let up at all on assaulting her pleasure centers with my rod and my pelvis.
   The third time, I finally hit my limit as well. I’d been pounding non-stop without a break or without significantly slowing down. But all of a sudden I felt my breath begin to give out as my lungs reached their limit of hyperventilation. I felt various parts of my body going numb and my hip thrusts suddenly became hip rotations as the strength in my legs gave out and all I could keep doing was humping my pelvis directly against Adrienne’s clit.
   That was all she needed to cum again, her eyes rolling back up into her head while her arms and limbs began to twitch uncontrollably. And as I felt my own orgasm exploding out of my body, liquid fire pouring out of my prick, I also felt every other part of me going into emergency shut down lest I overheat and die.
   By the time I fired my second volley into Adrienne’s womb, I was aware of only two things: the rawness of my throat as my orgasmic scream joined with hers, and the unbelievable ecstasy and relief as my prick spurted what felt like gallons of sperm into her yielding body. Every other part of me had already gone dark, leaving no sensations possible except for the brilliant nova of my ejaculation.
   It was the greatest cum of my life.
   And just before the darkness of unconsciousness covered my vision, I saw Adrienne’s eyes close and her head flop to the side as she passed out. And then as my body collapsed, crushing her voluminous breasts against me, I closed my eyes and surrendered to the bliss of sleep.
   Chapter 13: Spring BreakAPRIL 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Do it, Ben. Do it. Gimme your jizz. Cum for your nasty slut. I wanna feel you dripping down my chest. I’m just gonna put my shirt on when you’re done. I’m gonna eat dinner with my dad knowing that I’ve got your dried spunk on my chest. Do it, Ben! Cum!”
   I growled and leaned back, feeling the compression in my balls as I readied for ejaculation. Adrienne started hunching her body up and down even faster, squeezing her massive breasts around my long prick, compressing her titflesh to form an even tighter tunnel of pleasure for my rod.
   And then I was there. I grunted twice and then Adrienne simply tilted her head back, exposing her neck as the first volley splattered the underside of her chin. She pulled her tits off me just enough to grab me in her right hand, taking over the jacking motion and expertly squeezing me for maximum cum volume.
   The second shot hit Adrienne in the upper chest, and then her hand took over the aiming as she carefully made sure I left sperm deposits in a big semi-circle around her neck.
   When I was done, I sagged back into the couch seat, panting for breathe while Adrienne observed her handiwork (er, titwork). She stuck a finger into a stray line of cum on her left breast, scooping it up and then popping the finger into her mouth while giggling delightfully.
   “What do you think?” she asked, rotating her chest to show her pearl necklace off like a work of art.
   “Absolutely beautiful,” I grinned and stared at the creamy globs splattered over her skin. “Better than jewelry. And we are SO gonna do that again.”
   She giggled again and then reached for her blouse. I pinched in my eyebrows in disbelief and barked,“Adrienne! You’re not really gonna wear my cum to dinner, are you?”
   “Well,” the gorgeous blonde said mysteriously. “I WAS considering it.”
   “Adrienne!” I protested.
   “Fine, fine,” she dropped the blouse and instead reached her hand to me. “Come on then. Let’s take a shower and see if we can’t find another place on my body to blow your load.”* * *
   Thirty minutes and one load of cum into Adrienne’s pussy later, I was jogging into my house, dressed in a new Abercrombie& Fitch striped polo and designer jeans that had once again taken a big bite out of my bank account. Adrienne of course had picked them out for me. Ah, the price for AMAZING sex.
   Twenty minutes after that, I was seated at the dinner table with my family around me.
   And thirty minutes after that, I was helping my mom in the kitchen when I finally worked up the courage to ask what had been on my mind for the past hour.“Mom, is it okay if I spend a few days of Spring Break with Adrienne?”
   “Of course,” she replied without even turning around. “I assumed you were going to spend every day with your girlfriend.”
   I sighed. That hadn’t come out right. “Uh, I meant daysand nights,” I clarified.
   Mom stopped mid-dish and turned around to look at me.“Say that again?”
   “Uh, Candy Carter, one of Adrienne’s friends?” I began, stammering slightly. “Well her parents have this beach house in La Jolla they usually rent out. It’s unoccupied right now and they said she could use it for the week. She’s inviting a bunch of friends, including Adrienne and me, and I’d really like to go.”
   Mom blinked twice and then without taking her eyes off me, called out for my dad.“Michael!”
   A minute later, my dad walked in and looked back and forth between us.“What’s up?”
   “Our son is asking permission to go to a beach house, overnight, in La Jolla with his girlfriend and some other high school friends.”
   My dad arched his eyebrow in the traditional family expression of inquisitiveness.“Any parental supervision?”
   I blushed.“Uh, probably not. Most of them are seniors at school.”
   “And just what do you expect to be doing while you’re there?” Dad asked with a condescending expression on his face.
   “Well, to be perfectly honest,” I began in a wary tone before straightening my spine. “Lots of swimming, surfing, and tanning. There will probably be some alcohol available. And I do expect to be having sex,” I nodded my head. “Lots and lots of sex. That’s what I was hoping for.”
   Mom was arching her eyebrow. My parents had always been pretty liberal, my mom even helping me have sex with Dawn last summer. They’d been aware of the beer at the various parties I’d attended close to home, and so far I’d never given them a reason not to trust me. But then, none of those parties had been overnight and in a town an hour’s drive away. Mom sighed and looked at her husband. “What do you think, Michael?”
   He took a deep breath and shrugged.“Well, Adrienne IS quite pretty.”
   “Michael!” My mom teased and slapped my dad on the arm. “Do you think we can trust Ben to be on his own for a few days?” My mom stood up straight at that thought and turned to me. “Wait, how many days were you planning on?”
   “Uh, honestly, as many as you’d let me. If it was only a single day and zero nights, meaning I drive down in the morning and come back that evening, I’d accept it. But I WAS hoping for at least two or three nights out of the whole week.”
   “They’ll be there for the whole week?”
   “Yes, Mom. Leaving Friday night and returning the Sunday before classes start again.”
   “And can we trust you?”
   “Yes, Mom. I’ll call every day to check in.”
   “And you’ll control your drinking and confine it to the house? Nothing out in public?”
   “Of course!” I promised quickly. My parents gave us kids wide boundaries, but it would be hell to pay if we crossed them, since they’d already given us so much leeway.
   “And no drugs,” Mom looked at me sternly.
   I rolled my eyes.“Of course not, Mom.”
   She sighed and looked at my dad.“What do you think?”
   He tapped his chin and thought about it for a moment.“The first weekend. Two nights. You can drive down with them on Friday and you’ll be home by dinner on Sunday. We definitely want you home on Monday for your birthday, and we’ll talk after that and decide if we want to let you go back for additional days.”
   Dad looked to his wife.“Sound reasonable?”
   Mom nodded and then looked at me.“Fair enough, Ben? If you behave the first weekend, we might let you go back. Okay?”
   I broke into a wide grin.“Okay!”
   My mom smiled and then waggled her finger at me.“And remember, no drugs!”* * *
   “C’mon, Ben! Just one hit!” Adrienne giggled and held out the marijuana joint to me. She’d been pestering me for a half-hour, pretty much since she started buzzing off the weed. I’d remembered my promise to my mother and kept saying “no”.
   “C’mon, Ben!” Adrienne batted her eyelashes at me. “One hit and I’ll let you fuck my face again!”
   That got my attention. And with Adrienne shaking her big tits in my face, barely concealed by a skimpy bikini top, and after three rum and cokes, I thought‘what the hell’ and reached for the proffered white roll.
   I’d seen enough people dragging on a joint to have a vague concept of what I was doing. But I wasn’t a smoker, not even cigarettes, and so I was slightly nervous as I took my first inhalation.
   It wasn’t anything like I expected. Actually, I didn’t feel a thing. So I tried again… and again… and after the third inhalation I felt a pleasant little crawly sensation in the back of my head. That was good enough for my first experience with an illegal drug.
   Shrugging, I handed the joint back and Adrienne took another hit herself, turning and leaning back against my chest, letting her head loll back onto my left shoulder. She sighed happily,“Mmm… yeah…”
   It was a very pleasant evening, everyone in the mood to just relax after a full day of classes. We’d hung out on the upstairs deck which overlooked the ocean, watching the sun set on the distant horizon. The weather was relatively warm and boosted by an overhead space heater, which kept the girls in bikini tops despite the late hour, much to the guys’ appreciation. And the smell of roasted meat wafted in the air, remnants of our completed barbecue. THIS was what I had imagined when I thought of a Spring Break.
   Adrienne was snuggling beside me on the couch, the two of us just mellowing out and enjoying the ocean breeze. Meanwhile, Candy Carter was literally in Trevor Hansen’s lap, doing her level best to permanently embed her tongue into his throat. The third couple, Summer MacIntosh and Jae Choi, was somewhere else in the house, surely already fucking each other’s brains out.
   That just left the two solo cheerleaders, Mizuho Nishioka, a tall, pretty, Japanese-American babe, and Lynne Arian, a petite, cute brunette, to hang out on the deck with us and chat amiably with me and Adrienne. I cheerfully ogled their cleavage and passed the time in idle conversation, a few more cocktails, and a couple more joints that got passed around.
   A little after sunset, Candy and her big jock boyfriend Trevor excused themselves to go play in a more private place. I thought about suggesting the same thing, but Adrienne was in the middle of some weed-induced philosophical bullshit conversation about the nature of humanity, and I didn’t want to interrupt her. But my cock was hard in my shorts and I started leaning into her just a bit more, bending my head down to nibble along her shoulder and lightly kiss my girlfriend’s ear.
   Adrienne giggled when she realized I was feeling rather horny, but rather than tell me to back off or wind down her conversation with the girls, she merely reached back with her right hand, slipped it beneath the waistband of my shorts, and wrapped her fingers around my shaft.
   Lynne’s eyes went wide when she saw this, but Mizuho just smirked. And as Adrienne began to gently stroke me, she carried on her conversation as if nothing different was going on.
   I felt flush with embarrassment, feeling rather exposed with my girlfriend jacking me in front of two of her friends. But with the mellow marijuana buzz dulling my anxiety and the pleasurable feeling of her skillful hand, I just relaxed and went with the flow, moaning very softly into Adrienne’s ear.
   “You’re such a slut,” Mizuho giggled. “Why don’t you just whip it out and fuck him right here?”
   “Seriously?” Lynne gasped, not wanting to stare but unable to look away either.
   “You’ll be getting much more of an eyeful later on, Lynne. Remember the plan? Up close and personal.” Adrienne smirked, and the petite brunette’s jaw just quivered. For a moment, I wondered if Adrienne reallywould just expose my cock and impale herself on it.
   “Why wait?” Mizuho husked through heavy lidded eyes. “You DID say he was the best you ever had, A.D. And I’ve NEVER heard you praise a boy like that before. So if you won’t, maybe I’ll just take him for a ride right now?”
   “Nuh-uh. Not tonight,” Adrienne tsked in reply. “Rules, Mizu. Rules.”
   The slender, pretty Asian girl pouted and folded her arms over her chest. Lynne looked both relieved and disappointed no one was going to start fucking in front of her. Instead, Adrienne just kept stroking me in measured rhythm.
   Her slow pace kept me from ever getting close to popping, but the combined marijuana, alcohol, and physical stimulation kept me aroused. Without all three of those, I doubt my inhibitions would have lowered enough for me to do what I did next.
   After five minutes of being stroked, I decided that turnabout was fair play. I had my left arm wrapped behind Adrienne and turned my hand from where it held her side, bringing it upwards until I was cupping one of those big, round tits from outside her bikini. With my right hand, I reached over and tried to slide it into Adrienne’s shorts. But they were too tight for me to fit my hand through, so I settled for unbuttoning them and dropping the zipper, only then diving my hand beneath her bikini bottoms and sliding a finger into the blonde’s moist pussy.
   I’d been expecting Adrienne to stop me before I got to this point. Teasing me was one thing, a show of mastery and control for her friends. But I figured her own modesty would kick in if I attempted to do the same.
   But she didn’t stop me. Instead, Adrienne actually opened her legs a little wider to give me better access and soon I had coated two fingers in her natural juices and I started softly rubbing her clit.
   Lynne looked like she half-wanted to crawl behind her own hands, they way someone does during a scary movie. Mizuho just looked enraptured at the outline of my hand moving beneath Adrienne’s thong panties. By now, the conversation had pretty much come to a stop, the single cheerleaders simply watching Adrienne and I masturbate each other. The only sounds now were that of Adrienne softly whimpering and the rustle of fabric against skin as we continued frigging while just barely hidden from view.
   Adrienne was only lightly stroking me, but I fully intended to get her off on my fingers. And just as her whimpers began to pick up in speed and pitch, the wind died out and the air became still. The ambient silence served only to heighten the focus on Adrienne’s soft whimpers of pleasure, and the three of us listened intently as my gorgeous girlfriend started into short, staccato gasps, signaling that her end was very near.
   Even though we were all expecting it, Adrienne’s wail of completion surprised us as it burst forth like a gunshot, causing both other girls to jerk back and me to abruptly stop fingering her for a second. But then Adrienne’s other hand was over mine, pushing it back into motion and she moaned and whimpered as the orgasm continued on and on.
   When she was done, Adrienne pulled her hand out of my shorts, grabbed my head, and planted one of her nuclear kisses on my lips. And then without a word, she stood on shaky legs and practically dragged me to our bedroom.
   It was a very good night.* * *
   Whether by design or accident, pretty much all the bedroom windows were left open. The walls weren’t very thick either. And so for most of the night and a good chunk of the morning, the sounds of ecstatic lovemaking could be heard throughout the house.
   After I pushed Adrienne through two screaming orgasms and one of my own, we could hear another couple going at it, Summer and Jae I believed. Midway through Summer and Jae’s lovemaking, Candy and Trevor re-started their own activities, the girls getting into a moaning and screaming competition. And by the time they finished, Adrienne and I showed them what orgasms were REALLY supposed to sound like.
   By morning, Lynne and Mizuho were hornier than mutant goats. While the other six of us were relaxed over breakfast, the two of them were fidgety and restless in their seats. Mizuho was eyeing all the guys hungrily, as if she was visualizing what we’d all been doing the previous night. And Lynne refused to make eye contact with anyone, just squirming constantly.
   That’s whenshe arrived.
   “I’m HEE-rre!” a loud, feminine voice announced.
   I craned my neck around to see a stunningly beautiful girl posing at the entryway, arms up as if inviting everyone to stare adoringly at her. She was an Amazonian goddess with dark hair and bright eyes. My eyes bounced down her glorious body, tightly-wrapped in a slinky green outfit that hugged her every curve. She was Elyse Laughton: Senior-class babe, head cheerleader, and all-around queen bee of the school. I knewwho she was, but never had the opportunity to really be around her or get to know her. She just ran with a different crowd of cheerleaders most of the time, and I wasn’t entirely sure how she fit in with Adrienne’s other friends that I was more familiar with.
   All I needed to know came from Adrienne’s muttered curse beside me. “The fuck isshe doing here?”
   Even Candy seemed surprised, despite the fact that this was HER family’s house, although her response was far more pleasant. “Elyse! Hey! Didn’t know you were gonna make it.”
   “Welllll,” Elyse said dramatically as if she were deigning to step down amongst us mere mortals. “I was going to Katrina’s place for break, but something came up and I remembered your invitation. So here I am!” And Elyse actually twirled, going up tiptoe on one foot to show off the extension of her incredible legs and slender physique.
   And when she came back down, her eyes darted across the room for a moment, taking in everyone who was present before alighting on me and Adrienne. Her jet black hair settled down in a Cleopatra cut over her pretty face, her sculpted cheekbones hardened, and sharp green eyes closing down to slits.“Oh,” Elyse hummed seductively. “Fresh meat…”
   With that, the stunningly beautiful senior sashayed across the room, proffering her hand to me palm down with a limp wrist in a move that made me automatically grasp her fingers.“Enchanté,” she mused in a sultry voice.
   “Uh, hi,” I stammered.
   “Ben, right?” Elyse’s green eyes glittered. “I’ve heardso much about you.”
   If looks could kill, Adrienne would have incinerated Elyse by now.
   Candy saw Adrienne’s expression and patted Elyse, her Cheerleading Captain, on the back. “C’mon. Have you had breakfast yet?”
   The two of them headed into the kitchen, and then Adrienne turned around and sunk into the couch, clearly upset.“Gimme that,” she snapped to Summer, who had just arrived with a fresh glass of orange juice. Quietly, Summer handed it over and Adrienne chugged the entire thing before she sighed and let her head sink against my shoulder. Summer just raised her eyebrows and went back to get another OJ.
   “What was that all about?” I asked softly.
   “Nothing,” Adrienne grumped. “She’s just jealous because she thinks I’m out to take her spot.”
   “Are you?”
   Adrienne shrugged and answered in a quiet voice.“Not my fault if the guys think I’m the hottest girl in school instead of her. And yeah, I want the Captaincy next year, but next year’s squad decides that, not her. What does she care? She’ll have graduated and moved on.”
   “Is that it?”
   Adrienne went quiet for a long while and then took another chug of her drink. She never answered and I didn’t press any further. There was an untold story between Elyse and Adrienne, but I wasn’t about to find it out just yet.* * *
   After breakfast, we all went out to do a little shopping and sightseeing. Flying solo, Elyse joined Mizuho and Lynne in wearing some of their most revealing outfits, going around charming every male between the ages of 13 and 50 we met on the street. They wanted attention. It was easy. Six hot, busty, teenage girls wearing skimpy clothing drew men like moths to a flame.
   I noticed also that Elyse went out of her way to flirt with me as well. I tried to remember that she wasn’t exactly Adrienne’s favorite person, but so far Elyse had done nothing to show me she was a bad person. Sure, she was a little narcissistic, but then, what extremely hot girl isn’t? And so I found myself rather enjoying the extra attention from the slightly older, exceedingly beautiful young woman.
   While the girls browsed hideously expensive clothing at one of the many boutique shops on Prospect St., I entertained myself by imagining Adrienne in some of the particularly sheer summer dresses the shop carried, one of which appeared to be completely see-thru in the chest area. I even started imagining what Elyse’s tits would look like in the dress. But then I heard Adrienne let out an annoyed sigh and exit the store.
   Through a window, I could see Adrienne walking up to Mizuho, who was chatting up a well-tanned, handsome older man who was graying at the temples. From my position and the noises of the street, I couldn’t hear anything they were saying.
   Abruptly, Adrienne yanked back on Mizuho’s arm and said something, which made the man jerk away and almost immediately head off down the sidewalk. Mizuho pouted and complained something. But Adrienne shook her head firmly and started dragging her friend inside the store. Once they crossed inside, I heard Adrienne say, “What were you thinking? There’s no way in hell Candy would let you bring an old guy like that back to her place!”
   “I wasn’t going to bring him BACK. I just… I was just flirting!” Mizuho complained in her high-pitched voice with just a trace of a Japanese accent.
   “You’re seventeen!”
   “HE didn’t know that. At least until you TOLD him and he ran away like I had the plague or something,” Mizuho pouted.
   Adrienne rolled her eyes and then got the attention of the others.“Hey, let’s keep moving.”
   Elyse then took over, raising her voice and adopting the commanding tone of one used to being in charge.“Let’s keep moving, girls. Anybody want a frappucino?”* * *
   We got lunch and then hit the beach, doing a little bodysurfing, a little tossing frisbee, and the girls did a lot of tanning. There’s something indescribably erotic about a girl facedown on a towel, her back completely naked while the untied strings of her bikini top lay sprawled out next to her body. To see six such girls in a row is simply mind-blowing, and we three guys spent a good chunk of our time warding away adoring male fans. We weren’t helped in that Elyse, Mizuho, and Lynne were actively encouraging additional male attention, and after an hour the three of them separated their towels from the group so that they could get suitably flattered by men without interference.
   Thankfully, none of the girls seemed inclined to actually invite someone back to Candy’s house, and once everyone was nicely burnt we all returned for an afternoon siesta.
   When we got back, Elyse flirtatiously asked if I would rub soothing lotion into her back. But Adrienne just glared at her, grabbed my shoulder, and then frog-marched me into our room. Once inside, Adrienne stripped herself completely naked, posed, and then asked,“Please Ben. Can you put some aloe all over my naked body?”
   I grinned and went to my task, which led to a little hanky-panky, which resulted in pleasant orgasms for the both of us. After that, I made my second attempt at sleeping with someone else in bed.
   My first attempt had just been the past night. I wasn’t used to having another body so close by and I slept only fitfully. In fact, if I wasn’t so exhausted from sex, I might not have fallen asleep at all. Some people can spend the entire night cuddled in each other’s arms. Adrienne and I spent the entire night yanking the blankets back and forth and rolling away from each other.
   But on Saturday afternoon, we managed to peacefully catch a couple hours of shut-eye with Adrienne’s head pillowed on my chest. My left arm felt like weak rubber when I woke up, but the radiant smile on my girlfriend’s face more than made up for the minor discomfort.* * *
   Saturday night started off as a rehash of Friday night. We fired up the barbecue, this time grilling some sort of kabob instead of burgers or steaks. Mixed drinks would be plentiful, music pumped through the upper floor and deck, and a few more joints were rolled and passed around.
   I’d called my mom that afternoon to let her know I was doing fine. She hadn’t asked about drugs, so I didn’t need to lie to her. And when Adrienne handed me the joint, I properly took a few puffs before passing it along.
   There was just one minor hiccup. Even in La Jolla, springtime evenings would cool enough to demand sweaters or other sources of heat on the back patio. Since we wanted to remain in as brief attire as possible, Candy kept the patio heater turned up. But when she went to turn it on, the big thing made a clunking noise, started smoking for a second, and then promptly went dead.
   “FUCK!” Candy spat, wrapping her arms around herself against the wind whipping in from the ocean. “Looks like we’ll have to put some clothes on.”
   “NO!” Trevor bitched, wanting to see his girlfriend wearing her skimpy bikini as much as the rest of us guys did.
   Quickly, I set my beer down and said,“Lemme look at it.”
   “Don’t worry,” Candy said glumly. “We’ll get a contractor in come Monday.”
   “That’s two days away,” I arched an eyebrow. “Really, just lemme look at it.”
   “Let him look,” Adrienne piped up and then gave her friend a saucy grin. “Even buzzed, Ben’s all the handyman you need.”
   After unplugging the unit and getting up on a ladder, I popped the casing on the big rectangular heater and poked around, finding the culprit almost immediately. A wire had come loose and was shorting across the heating element. I hopped back into the house and hunted around for some electrical tape, then returned and re-twisted the wire into position and taped it down. Less than five minutes after the heater conked out, I closed the casing and fired her up. A bright orange glow immediately emanated from the heating coils and I stepped back with a satisfied smile on my face.
   “Wow, Ben! You really are handy!” Candy exclaimed with a delighted smile on her face as she hugged me, pressing those nice tits into my chest.
   I grinned and looked around. The commotion had attracted all of our friends, and I saw the guys looking at me with respect while the girls smiled in admiration, even Elyse.
   Adrienne quickly slipped her arm around my waist and kissed my cheek.“It gets me sooo hot when you do manly stuff like that.”
   I grinned and kissed her cheek back.“Does that mean I get a hero’s reward later on?”
   Her eyes glowed golden.“Absolutely.”
   I laughed and we all went back to our mellow partying. A fresh joint was handed to me and under the basking warmth of the overhead heater, we all enjoyed the breeze and the view of a half-dozen girls wearing their skimpy bikini tops.* * *
   It was sometime after the sun went down that the evening started to get rather more intense. Everyone was properly buzzed by now, the nine of us all sprawled across the great room, lounging on various couches, chairs, and bean bags. That’s when Candy brought out a tray with a row of shot glasses, some limes, and a bottle of tequila. And then she proudly announced that we were playing Truth or Dare.
   Summer, a beautiful California blonde, guffawed at that.“Come on, Candy. We know most of each other’s secrets.”
   “The key word is ‘most’,” Candy giggled. “We also have two new people,” Candy gestured to me and Jae, who were recent additions to the clique. “And since we haven’t done this since last summer, I’m sure everyone has lost a few more points off the purity test.”
   Adrienne groaned.“Stupid game.”
   Elyse laughed, the sound more biting than humorous. Her sharp green eyes danced as she stared down Adrienne.“That’s just because you’re so secretive that you always end up doing the most dares.”
   “It’s because I get picked on more than everyone else,” Adrienne raised her chin and stared back. “All the guys just want to see young Adrienne get hammered and naked.”
   “Not my fault you can’t handle the heat,” Elyse retorted.
   “Hey, hey,” Candy’s voice calmed things down. “Let’s just have some fun here.”
   Adrienne took a deep breath and a drag on the latest joint.“Fine, but I get to go first.”
   Candy looked around, getting shrugs from everyone, including Elyse. So Candy motioned to Adrienne to go right ahead.
   Adrienne got a wicked grin on her face and leaned forward.“You mentioned losing points off the purity test. And I KNOW which one you were hung up on last summer. So Candy, did you finally let Trevor fuck your ass? Truth or Dare?”
   Candy’s blush answered before she could say anything. And even if that wasn’t confirmation enough, the shit-eating grin on Trevor’s face took away any doubt. No one was surprised when Candy offered up a meek “yes”.
   “How was it?” Adrienne couldn’t help asking.
   “Nuh-uh. That’s a second question. It’s my turn,” Candy grinned and an evil gleam came into her eye.
   I started to get a little worried. I’d played truth or dare myself a few times, but Adrienne’s first question was already something that pushed the furthest limits of any questions I’d done with Kenny and Daniel and the girls from my old crew. Just how crazy would this night get?
   “So Lynne…” Candy began.
   Lynne paled and visibly trembled. At first, it looked like Candy was going to ask her a question she’d had on her mind for some time, but after seeing her friend go into a state of near-panic, her face softened and Candy put up a soft lob of a question. “Did you really write that paper for Mr. Ricardo’s Comparative Cultures class? Truth or Dare?”
   Lynne visibly relaxed. So did I. And then Lynn said,“Truth. And no. It was my brother’s college paper he wrote for another class.”
   Everyone groaned, but Lynne’s and Candy’s eyes met and I got the distinct impression that the real question Candy wanted to ask would come out eventually.
   And so we went on. Lynne asked Elyse a softball question to which Elyse took a dare, just for the hell of it, and wound up taking a shot of tequila. Jae, a well-built Korean-American, admitted that he’d been boinking Summer for a full month before he broke up with Ji-hyun Jeon. Mizuho took a dare and removed her wrap, leaving her wearing nothing but her bikini. Then Summer took a dare and had to take a shot of tequila.
   Someone passed around a freshly lit joint and then we continued. I revealed that I’d lost my virginity less than a year ago. And Trevor explained that he’d been stoned out of his mind during a baseball game where he struck out four times and made two fielding errors.
   Then Trevor asked Adrienne what her bust size was up to now.“They were double-D’s last summer but I swear they’ve gotten bigger,” he leered.
   Adrienne shrugged and said,“36E. And don’t bother; you pulled this stunt on me last summer.”
   But Trevor had already launched into his follow-up.“Prove it!”
   Adrienne sighed.“You got me to remove my bra last summer as proof. But these bikinis come in small, medium, large. So I’m not taking this top off, Trevor.”
   The big guy’s face fell. “Aww, c’mon A.D.”
   And then Adrienne got up, heading off for our bedroom where she eventually came back with one of her unused bras, flipping over the tag.“See? Proven.”
   Jae leaned forward.“Damn! Good try, Trev.”
   Adrienne rolled her eyes and drawled,“Boys. Using the same stupid trick twice.”
   Everyone got a laugh. So far, none of the questions were overly personal and the dares were pretty tame… so far.
   Lynne and Jae both took tequila dares. After those first two, we just kept going around until all 8 of us had taken a shot. And that’s when things started to get a little more intense.
   Candy was up again and this time, she asked the question she’d really been wanting. “So Lynne…”
   Lynne gulped and she fractionally shook her head in the negative. I got the distinct impression Lynne already knew the question that was coming and that Candy already knew the answer as well. She was just looking for confirmation.
   A little smile came to Candy’s face and her eyes dropped to mere slits. “Do you fantasize about fucking my boyfriend?”
   Lynne quailed and averted her eyes. Her jaw trembled and in a meek voice, the cute brunette answered,“Dare.”
   It was one of those answers where everyone knew the answer was‘yes’, and that even Lynne was trying to hide from the truth. And with a menacing grin, Candy leaned forward and said, “Fine. Here’s your dare. French kiss Trevor.”
   Lynne was already the youngest-looking person there. She was just a Junior, like me and Adrienne. With light brown hair often pulled into a ponytail and a face more cute than beautiful, the petite 16-year-old could easily pass for fourteen. Now, as she trembled in both fear and desire, she practically looked twelve.
   Candy nodded her head to Trevor, who got up and moved over in front of Lynne, who looked at him with wide brown eyes, half in shock as he knelt before her. Trevor was practically oozing charm out of his ears as he looked intensely at Lynne, and she actually swooned into his hand when he brought it up to cup her cheek. And by the time Trevor planted his lips on Lynne, all her anxiety had been washed away in a flood of lust as she clutched her hands behind his head and met his kiss in a rush of passion.
   It was a cute moment. Without the buzz, Lynne probably would never have lowered her inhibitions enough to go along with it. But when Trevor pulled away, the pretty brunette looked as if she were a Disney princess who had just realized her prince had come.
   Candy didn’t seem to mind. Actually, from the look of heat in Candy’s eyes, I thought it quite possible that Lynne would wind up in hers and Trevor’s bed tonight. And as Trevor held Lynne’s hands, everyone else around them started whooping in delight.
   That kiss would turn out to be the happiness highlight of the evening. Things got considerably darker after that.* * *
   The game started off by merely getting more intense. With nine sexually-active, weed-smoking teens, there weren’t a whole lot of taboo subjects or limits of modesty. Summer admitted her “number” was five. Candy admitted the most risqué place she’d ever had sex was on Mr. Ricardo’s desk just two minutes after class had ended for the day. I revealed that yes, I’d had sex with a much older woman, and Adrienne simply nudged me in the ribs, since she was the one who’d asked me the question. And Elyse admitted that the most guys she’d ever had in a single night was four.
   The dares also progressed way past tequila shots, and Adrienne frequently had to put up with them since she was still the most closed-off when it came to personal secrets. She had to deep-throat a banana, remove her shorts to leave her in only her bikini, and stick fingers into her own pussy and then lick the juices off.
   Lynne had to french kiss Adrienne and then Mizuho had to french kiss Summer. Immediately afterwards, Jae had to strip down to his tighty-whities, the skimpy Hanes underwear doing almost nothing to hide the erection that had formed from watching his girlfriend making out with another chick, and a beautiful Asian at that.
   That started a run on removing-clothing dares. All the girls wound up wearing just their bikinis or bras and panties. Trevor got down to his boxer shorts. And after I refused to reveal the name of the older woman I’d slept with, I was down to my shorts as well.
   By this point, we were all completely bombed out of our minds, giggling constantly (both male and female) and I started to get the impression that almost anything was possible.
   Things went a step further and the guys finally got a glimpse of Adrienne’s tits when she was dared to walk onto the second-floor deck without her top and pose there for a full minute, risking that some passerby might see her. Certainly, everyoneinside the room was staring out the sliding doors. Everyone, including me, booed when she returned and put her top back on.
   A few minutes later, Mizuho lost her top and had to keep it off. The cute Japanese girl had a pretty nice set of tits, but then a minute later, Summer completely put her to shame when she had to strip completely naked and proudly displayed the silicone D-cups her daddy had bought for her, along with a nicely waxed pussy. I stared in awe for a moment once her tits were revealed, even though I knew my girlfriend had a nicer pair. Hey, new breasts are new breasts. And Summer was a typical hot Orange County girl: a natural brunette with platinum blonde-dyed hair, blue eyes, a tanned complexion, and a fresh, pretty face. Adrienne reached over and closed my mouth for me.
   And it wasn’t just the girls getting naked. When Jae and Trevor balked at kissing each other on the lips, both of them lost their underwear and wound up having to sit bare-buck naked, their erections hot and throbbing in the air.
   But when Elyse dared Candy to give Trevor a blowjob in front of everyone, the entire room collectively gasped and then went silent.
   In the tiniest of whispers, I asked Adrienne,“Do things always get this wild?”
   She glanced at me with wide eyes, both surprised and aroused at the same time.“No, never. Yeah, we get naked sometimes; the guys love a cheap thrill. But never anything this sexual. Not during a game.”
   Candy seemed of like mind, seeing a blowjob as going too far. For a moment, she contemplated ruling that blowjobs were“too far outside the game”. But Elyse was insistent, and Candy agreed to her truth question, admitting that yes, she’d cheated on Trevor behind his back. But Trevor already had known about it (they’d both cheated a couple of times), and the game moved on.
   But Elyse didn’t let up. The next time she had a turn she gave the same blowjob dare, and this time, with Summer bombed out of her mind, she caved and gave her boyfriend Jae a one-minute blowjob right in front of everyone.
   Watching the beautiful blonde sucking her boyfriend’s dick got everyone a little excited, and when Summer dared Adrienne to go down on Candy for a minute, the girls just took extra shots of tequila and went at it.
   I’d known my girlfriend flirted with other girls. She flirted with everybody. But flirting is a far cry from munching pussy, and by the time my girlfriend pulled her wet face out of Candy’s crotch, I might as well have not been wearing my shorts because my cock was poking out the top of it anyways.
   That problem was solved a second later when Candy dared Mizuho to give me afive-minute blowjob.
   My eyes flew wide open in shock, wonder, and panic. The shock came first, because I wasn’t expecting anyone to really cross the invisible boundaries of dating couples (i.e. for anyone but Adrienne to do something sexual with me). The wonder came next when Adrienne just giggled and pointed Mizuho at me, seemingly unconcerned whatsoever. I supposed the concept of “exclusivity” wasn’t such a big deal for Adrienne, especially given our past history. And then panic set in last, because I’d been titillated with arousal for the past hour as the game had progressed, and I wasn’t entirely sure I could last five minutes.
   While I didn’t know Mizuho very well, I’d certainly been able to appreciate her beauty for some time. After all, doesn’t every teenage boy fantasize about pretty much every beautiful girl that attends his school? And while Mizuho didn’t have the biggest tits or the nicest ass, she certainly had a tightbody, a gorgeous face, and soft pink lips. Those lips were currently opening up, and through the drunken, stoned fog clouding my brain, I felt the heavenly pleasure of a warm, wet mouth surrounding my cock.
   If I hadn’t been stoned, I might have been so nervous that I popped right then and there. But I was stoned, and I wasn’t so nervous, and I simply groaned as Mizuho began fellating me.
   Through heavy-lidded eyes, I looked down at the pretty girl giving me a wonderful blowjob. Mizuho’s dark hair was streaked with blonde, and for a moment, I had a flashback to my sister Brandi, waking me up with my dick in her mouth. The memory only surged even more lust through my body, and I groaned while bucking my hips upward, shoving more of my meat into Mizuho’s mouth. And if the pretty Japanese cheerleader had started to suck me just then, she would’ve wound up with quite the load of cum spraying into her mouth.
   But Mizuho gagged for a second, her eyes bulging, and she let me fall out of her mouth. And by the time she returned to her oral attentions, the urge to cum had passed and I managed to ride out the five minutes without suffering a premature end.
   When she was done, Mizuho sat up and brushed her hair behind her ears, fixing me with a wide smile.“You’ve got a beautiful cock, Ben,” she said in a sultry voice. “I’ll love to take it for a ride someday.” She turned around and went back to her seat.
   And as I panted for air and tried to recover my composure, I looked around at the eight horny teenagers around me and wondered just how far this would go.* * *
   I had no idea how late the hour was by the time everyone got naked. I do remember staring in awe at Elyse’s naked body: her natural D-cups so buoyant and firm, her tummy with an actual six-pack, her bare-pussy already leaking moisture. But then Adrienne had smacked me and my focus got back into the game.
   Dares had outnumbered truths 3 to 1 for the past few minutes. Summer and Mizuho had given Jae a tandem blowjob that stopped just short of getting him off. And Candy and Elyse had sixty-nined each other to orgasm, much to everyone’s delight.
   Then Lynne was the last one to lose all her clothes, and while she had the face of a young teenager, her body was clearly all woman with a nice set of tits and rounded hips. She was also sitting in Trevor’s lap, grinding her ass on top of his erection. If this thing went much farther, I was certain that she’d soon be fucking him. Actually, if this thing went much farther, I was hoping we’d end up with a full-blown orgy.
   After hours of being sexually titillated, I was DYING to get laid.
   It didn’t help matters when I took a dare rather than answer another sexual question that might reveal Keira’s identity. The group had more or less figured out I was pretty hush-hush about my first lover and whenever they wanted me to do a dare, I was pretty much guaranteed a question in that direction.
   This time, the dare was to give Elyse a five-minute lapdance. Adrienne looked a little peeved, but grudgingly she nodded for me to go ahead and I proceeded to give the gorgeous, raven-haired beauty the absolute worst Chippendale’s-esque lapdance possible.
   It’s not that I wasn’t trying very hard. It’s just that for whatever sexual experience I had, giving a girl a lapdance wasn’t among them. I’m just glad I was stoned out of my head; otherwise I might have been too nervous to even move. As it was, I shook my ass in Elyse’s face and let her grope my buttcheeks. I waggled my cock in front of her and spanked her hand when she tried to grope it as well. And then after another minute of my inept gyrations, she simply threw me onto the couch and started giving ME a lapdance, crushing her tits into my face and dragging her wet pussy along myerection.
   “You’re pretty big!” she gasped as she rubbed her pussy along the outside of my shaft, her panting breath heavy in my ears as she crushed her tits into my chest and really started to get herself off on me. In the fog of drunkenness, I started to forget that my girlfriend was just feet away. My rational brain melted away, and all I had left were the instincts of a 16-year-old, aroused male. I wanted to FUCK.
   Elyse seemed of like mind and when our eyes connected the next time, I swore I could feel a green flash explode in my brain. She then tilted her head and brought her face down to mine. And while her hands gripped my ears, Elyse Laughton, Senior-class goddess, raven-haired beauty, and all-around sexy teenage vixen, shoved her tongue down my throat.
   “Hey, hey! Time! Time!” someone yelled, Summer I think.
   I was dazed as Elyse climbed off me, assisted in part by Adrienne none too gently, and then I was yanked out of my seat and flung back to my spot on the couch. My girlfriend’s usually hazel eyes now burned a bright gold, but fortunately for me her wrath seemed directed elsewhere. The game then continued without incident.* * *
   We all knew Elyse had taken things with me beyond the initial dare, and Adrienne got her mini-revenge a few minutes later. While Elyse was apparently no blowjob virgin, it was an act she didnot enjoy and the next time Elyse had to take a dare, Adrienne stated,“Okay Elyse. Give Jae a blowjob and swallow his cum.”
   Elyse balked at having to do it, an act she personally thought was beneath her, especially the part about swallowing cum. And to our surprise, she returned back to Adrienne’s original truth question and admitted the cruelest thing she ever did to another cheerleader.
   That particular truth question was one that none of the girls would ever answer. To answer it honestly would invite the wrath of a friend and could potential cause a rift in the cheer squad. As such, the question was used when you wanted your target to do a dare with certainty.
   But Elyse answered it, and she revealed that last year, she’d screwed Eric Bradford, Lynne Arian’s boyfriend at the time. Turned out, she was the one to tell Eric to give Lynne the “put out or get out” ultimatum that led to Lynne finally giving up her virginity, and then Eric immediately blabbing about it to the whole school.
   “You fucking BITCH!” the normally quiet Lynne exploded, ready to claw Elyse’s eyes out. It took both Mizuho and Candy to subdue the petite girl.
   Once they got Lynne settled down, Candy sighed,“I think we’ve gone far enough for one game.”
   I glanced at the clock, amazed to find that it was nearing 1am. We’d been drinking and smoking and munching and screwing around for hours.
   But Elyse wasn’t ready to back down. There were green flames in her eyes as she declared, “NO! We’re not done yet.” The edge in her voice matched the edge in her eyes as she glared back at Adrienne, who had put her in the situation to begin with.
   And before anyone else could complain, Elyse stood herself up straight and declared,“My turn. So Adrienne…” Elyse emphasized her full name instead of the A.D. nickname. “Who took your virginity? Truth or Dare…”
   My girlfriend suddenly went pale. Drunk or not, stoned or not, she understood the question perfectly and her jaw dropped. Her eyes flickered to Candy for a brief moment, who similarly looked shocked.
   I darted my head back and forth between Elyse and Adrienne. The question itself was innocent enough, the type of question we had tossed out there more than an hour ago. Trevor had revealed it was his babysitter when he was fifteen. Mizuho had answered a boyfriend who’d since moved out of state when she was fourteen. I’d even been asked the question, but took a dare rather than reveal Keira, as usual. But from the undercurrent of tension between the two beautiful girls, the answer was clearly more complicated than that.
   It was obvious that Elyse, Adrienne, and Candy all knew the secret. It was also quite obvious that Adrienne had no intention of answering the question with a truth. My girlfriend’s jaw quivered as she looked on the verge of breaking down, her voice cracking as she said, “I can’t believe you asked me that.”
   “Who took your virginity, A.D.?” Elyse repeated.
   “You SLIMY PIECE OF SHIT!” Adrienne spat. “You already know the FUCKING ANSWER!”
   “I do. Butthey don’t,” Elyse swept her hands across the room. “Of course, you don’t have to answer it, sweetie,” Elyse sneered. “Truth or dare?”
   Ready to cry, Adrienne spat back,“You know goddamn well I’m going to say ‘dare’. So DARE.”
   Elyse grinned triumphantly.“YOU… let ME… fuck your boyfriend.”
   All of a sudden there were seven pairs of eyes darting back and forth, only Elyse and Adrienne’s gazes staying locked onto each other. Adrienne shook her head in the negative and growled right back. “You’ve got to dare ME. Make ME do something.”
   “I just did,” Elyse scorned. “You have to just stand back and let me fuck him, without interfering. That’s your dare.”
   “He won’t do it,” Adrienne stammered and then looked at me. “You won’t do it, will you Ben?”
   Immediately I shook my head‘no’. My girlfriend was asking me not to fuck Elyse. Doing the quick math in my head, I could get laid pretty much as often as I wanted with my girlfriend. Elyse was hot, but one time with her didn’t outweigh my relationship with Adrienne.
   “You sure? I can be very persuasive,” Elyse took two steps towards me, her feet crossing over like a model’s walk. Her naked hips swayed and she looked at me predatorily. “He is… after all… just a guy.”
   “No,” Adrienne protested and looked to Candy. “This game has gone far enough.”
   Candy read the plea for help in Adrienne’s eyes and she spoke up. “Yeah, game over guys. It’s my house and house rules. We’re done.”
   “What?” Elyse wouldn’t let it go. “You afraid you’re not woman enough to keep your man? You scared?”
   “I’m not scared,” Adrienne stated defensively.
   “Then let’s leave it up to him,” Elyse said. “Thirty minutes. Just gimme thirty minutes alone with him in a bedroom. That’s all I need. If he’s everything you think he is, then nothing’ll happen. And if he does fuck me? Well, karma’s a bitch, isn’t it? I seem to remember that YOU stole him for a one-night stand from his girlfriends. Two of them, right?”
   Adrienne’s shoulders curled in at the memory. Elyse was being a predatory bitch, but Adrienne herself wasn’t exactly pure and moral either. She looked down at the floor away from me.
   By now, I was breathing shallowly, just trying to control my own hormones. I was surrounded by SIX beautiful,naked, teenage girls, one of whom was explicitly talking about fucking me. I was drunk and stoned and I was rock hard.
   “He’s just a guy, A.D. You didn’t even really want him that much in the first place anyways.”
   Still not looking at me, Adrienne flicked her hand in a dismissive gesture, pretending she didn’t care. “Whatever. Thirty minutes.”
   Elyse grabbed my wrist and yanked me to my feet.“No interfering. Or I’ll come out and tell everyone your dirty little secret.”
   Adrienne shuddered and looked ready to collapse. Whatever her secret was, it tore her up inside and instinctively I shrugged out of Elyse’s grasp and went to Adrienne, putting my hands on my girlfriend’s shoulders.
   “If he doesn’t come with me, I’m telling all,” Elyse warned.
   Adrienne shuddered beneath my hands and shook her shoulders, shrugging me off.“Just go, Ben.”
   “I don’t have to,” I said earnestly.
   “Just go.” Adrienne turned and looked at me, her eyes dead, resigned to her dark fate. “She’s enough of a bitch that she WILL tell.”
   I sighed and leaned back, shaking my head.“Thirty minutes. Nothing’s gonna happen,” I tried to reassure her.
   To my endless disappointment, Adrienne tilted her head and looked at me, clearly not believing a word I said. It was as if she was SURE I’d end up fucking Elyse. And with a heavy, defeated sigh, Adrienne just looked away from me. “I don’t care anymore.”* * *
   I wouldn’t have thought it possible, but I was as limp as wet spaghetti once I found myself in bed with a naked Elyse Laughton. She was quite gorgeous, and according to some, STILL the hottest girl on campus. With sizzling green eyes, perfect complexion, and silky, jet black hair, she was a Fox with a capital ‘F’.
   And yet I was soft. It was the first time in my life I was soft like this in front of a hot, naked babe who wanted to fuck me, at least without having cum a single time. And for a moment, I wondered why.
   It’s not like I had a deep-rooted sense of loyalty to Adrienne. After all, we’d been dating less than a month and we weren’t friends before that or anything. I didn’tlove Adrienne in any sense of the word. And I wasn’t particularly attached to her. Yeah, the sex was AMAZING and I wanted to fuck her brains out every time I saw her, but we weren’t bonded in any special way. To tell the truth, the biggest drive for me to be with Adrienne was so that I wouldn’t feel alone. Being ostracized from my friends left a gaping hole inside me. Adrienne helped to fill that hole, and I needed her because I had nowhere else to go.
   And that wasn’t exactly a great reason to be loyal.
   I was still reeling from my breakup to Megan and Cassidy. Really, I was still half in love with them. You know what they say about not realizing what you had until it was gone? Well, NOW I realized it. I thought I didn’t really love the girls. I certainly loved what we were doing, but didn’t really LOVE them. I just said the words to keep them happy. But deep down, I HAD gotten very attached to them. Maybe it wasn’t love, but it was certainly more than “like”. Megan and Cassidy truly loved me and they’d made my life so incredibly happy.
   But I’d fucked it up.
   I’d cheated. I’d severely hurt two sweet, lovely girls who mattered a hell of a lot to me.
   I couldn’t do it AGAIN. Besides, if Adrienne broke up with me too, where the HELL would I go then?
   And so I was limp and resigned to resisting my body’s urges for the next twenty-nine-and-a-half minutes.
   While all this swept through my mind, Elyse slid beside me on the bed and rolled her warm, naked body up to my side. Her fingers stroked my chest and her smile was both inviting and mysterious at the same time.“So, Ben… word is you’re quite the bull in the sack.”
   Limp or not, Elyse was HOT and she smelled really good. My breathing was shallow and I felt little tingles shooting through my skin. My BODY wanted to fuck, and my brain wasn’t used to sending “abort” signals. So when her hand began stroking my thigh, I sighed to mask my groan of arousal and turned my head towards the analog clock on the wall. Twenty-nine minutes to go. And the second hand was still moving.
   “I heard the rumors at school,” she husked into my ear. “I didn’t really believe them, but then I talked to Candy and the other girls here. They certainly could hear you and Adrienne last night. How you made her scream with ecstasy so many times. How you made the walls shake with your powerful lunges. And now I’m not so sure the rumors are all that exaggerated. Don’t you want to show me what I’m missing?”
   “No, Elyse,” I said, grinding my teeth to keep my mouth shut as I tried to think unsexy thoughts. “I like my girlfriend.”
   “Aww, Ben? Don’t I turn you on anymore?” Elyse husked as she threw a leg over me and moved to straddle my waist. “Aren’t these such fabulous tits? Don’t my cute, hard, pink nipples just make your mouth water? Go ahead. You can taste them.” And then Elyse moved forward and bumped one nipple against my nose, re-aiming a bit lower and pressing it to my lips. Before I could even control myself, my lips parted and I took a quick suck at her teat.
   You ever been on a diet and just know you’re not supposed to eat, say, a chocolate chip cookie? The easiest way to stick to your diet is just not to go into the cookie aisle. But what happens when you’re out and someone offers you the little dessert? It’s just a bit harder to resist, but maybe you can explain that you’re dieting and that you shouldn’t.
   But then they offer it again, saying,“C’mon. It’s just a cookie.” Tempting, isn’t it?
   Now imagine how hard it is when they physically take that cookie, open your mouth, and put it on your tongue. They won’t close your mouth and force you to chew, but when every instinct in your body is telling you to do just that… well… it’s just a cookie, right?
   I moaned as I suckled on the proffered breast, Elyse moaning enticingly while I nibbled. But then some sense of conscience flared up in me and I turned my head away.
   But Elyse grabbed my head and turned me forwards once again, pushing forward until my face was buried in her abundant cleavage as she pressed her titflesh to my cheeks.“They’re all yours, Ben. My whole body is yours to ravage as you see fit. There’s only one rule. You’ve got to cum inside me. I don’t care where inside me, as long as it’s inside me. You want to spunk down my throat? Cum deep in my pussy? Maybe even inside my tight, hot asshole?”
   I groaned and felt my cock surging, but desperate to resist, I reached around her back and grabbed her shoulders from behind, tugging to free myself from that heavenly valley.“No,” I said, regretting the word. “You’re just doing this to be mean to Adrienne.”
   “No… not at all,” Elyse protested, but then her face softened guiltily. “Well, let’s call that extra gravy on the side. No, I really am curious about you, Ben. I could’ve cum earlier, when I was rubbing myself against your beautiful cock. You DO have a beautiful cock, Ben, did you know that?”
   “So I’ve been told,” I muttered, still trying to think unsexy thoughts.
   The wall clock in the corner ticked audibly with each passing second, and I locked onto that sound, willing myself to endure. Every tick brought me closer to staying loyal, if for no other reason than to prove to myself that I was more than just a walking hormone, that I had a conscience. I knew Elyse didn’t REALLY want to fuck me. Well, she might enjoy it, but her primary purpose here was just to use me as a weapon against Adrienne.
   But I WANTED to be used. I didn’t care if I was used, as long as I got to fuck a hot pussy and cum inside her. Elyse was uncharted territory, beautiful and sexual and willing. There is never anything more tempting thannew pussy, especially the pussy of a gorgeous young woman like Elyse. And here it was, ripe for the taking.
   ‘No! Stay loyal!’ I told myself.
   My task to be loyal was made harder when Elyse’s hand went to my prick, jacking me slowly while she rubbed her tits in my face. I was trying to stay soft, but the warmth and softness of Elyse’s naked body was sending signals my brain couldn’t control, and the harder I tried to go soft, the harder I actually got.
   “Please, Ben? Don’t disappoint me,” Elyse said in a softly seductive tone. She had a voice that could make men cream their shorts over the phone. “My pussy is so lonely and it wants you inside. Don’t you want to make me happy? Don’t you want to fill me up and thrust inside me?”
   She was sooo tempting. Still, when I just closed my eyes and relaxed, it stayed at only half-erection. And the clock kept ticking.
   Clearly, I was enjoying the handjob. But just as clearly, I was fighting my urges. So letting out a grunt of frustration, Elyse took her seduction to the next level. She began slinking her way down my body, first bumping both her breasts against my eye sockets before dragging her nipples down my chest and then moving to lay beside me, stomach down until her head was just over my now half-hard erection.
   “This is a beautiful cock, Ben. And ordinarily, I NEVER suck them. Did you know that?”
   I hadn’t before this weekend, but I remembered her reaction when she was dared to give Jae a blowjob.
   “I’ll do it for you Ben. I’ll suck your cock. Would you like that?” She asked in that sweetly seductive voice and then breathed hotly right onto my prick.
   “No,” I groaned, but the traitorous organ twitched in response, all on its own.
   “Good!” Elyse cheered, answering my cock, and then she bent to take me inside her hot mouth.
   I groaned and sagged deeper into the bed. Elyse might not enjoy cocksucking, but that didn’t mean she wasn’t good at it. And as her head began to bob up and down my shaft, I found myself holding my breath as hours upon hours of teasing and exhibition were catching up with me. I’d spent the better part of the night watching blowjobs, getting blowjobs, watching lapdances, watching girls eating each other out, and all manner of teenage nudity. I was surprised I hadn’t spontaneously popped off already, and now that I was inside the warm confines of a hot, sucking mouth, I felt all the rest of my control slipping away.
   “You’re gonna fuck me, Ben,” Elyse popped off and said before resuming her cocksucking.
   “No…” I groaned, already feeling my resolve slipping away. A hot chick wanted to fuck me.
   When she took another breath, she moaned,“You’re gonna shove this hot, throbbing piece of man meat into my tight pussy and pound me RAW.” Her hand continued jacking me and then she ducked down to resume her licking and sucking.
   “Unnghh,” I grunted, not even able to say the word ‘no’.
   “You’re gonna cum in me, Ben. You’re gonna spray your thick, creamy jism into me. You can brag to the world that you spermed Elyse Laughton. You can cum in me anywhere you want, Ben. Cum in my womb and fill me with millions of sperm. Or if you really want, I’ll even let you fuck my ass. How‘bout that, Ben? You want to cornhole the hell out of the Prom Queen?”
   When she took me into her mouth again, my hips bucked up, shoving my cock into Elyse’s throat, and she took me like a champ. Without missing a beat, she kept on sucking and at that moment, despite whatever my misgivings or mental concerns, she HAD ME.
   I was gonna fuck her. Nothing would stop me. If she wanted a fuck, she was gonna get a fuck. I groaned in absolute lust and desire. The animal inside had taken over.
   So when Elyse pulled her head off and rolled onto her back, I was huffing and panting and horny as hell. CUM. I wanted to CUM!
   The gorgeous girl grinned and pulled her legs back, her hands behind her own knees as she spread herself wide for me. She had a very pretty pussy, completely shaven with cute pink lips that invited me inside, and so in a rush to be inside her, I clumsily tried to roll and then kneel into position, guiding my cock into place.
   This was it. I was going to fuck Elyse, some would say the most gorgeous girl I’d ever been with. She was naked and spread and all I had to do was slide into her body and I would achieve what every 16-year-old boy dreams of.
   It’s just a cookie…
   But then I saw her face. Elyse was grinning, the look on her face that of a victorious champion. Her jet black hair haloed around her, her eyes sparkled, and her smile revealed perfect, pearly teeth. She was gorgeous.
   But then I remembered the look on Adrienne’s face. SHE was the most gorgeous girl I’d ever been with, according to ME. But at the moment I left the beautiful blonde, her golden hair seemed dulled and darkened. Her eyes were dead and lifeless, and the sorrowful expression on her face made my heart ache. I didn’t love her, but I pitiedher.
   And then I remembered the look on Cassidy’s face, the way she looked that last day when she realized it was over. Without realizing it before, I did love her, in a way. At least as well as a 16-year-old male is capable of love. She’d had such hope for us to reunite, and it crushed her inside when those hopes were disappointed.
   And I remembered Megan’s face. The hate and anger, but also grief. She really and truly loved me,beyond what even a 16-year-old should be capable of. I barely understood why, but I’d hurt her terribly.
   I’d hurt Megan and Cassidy both terribly.
   Just like this would hurt Adrienne. I couldn’t do it AGAIN. Not again.
   So at the last possible second, as my cockhead touched Elyse’s pussy lips, I stopped and looked into her eyes. The animal was gone. “I can’t do this.”
   “Sure you can,” Elyse husked, anxious to get me inside her.
   “No,” I shook my head, torn between pleasure and honor. I knew I should pull back, but the physical draw was still so intense that my cockhead was STILL pressed up to her pussy lips. One thrust from either of us and we’d be complete. “I don’t want to cheat.”
   Elyse seemed to realize just how close we were. And her eyes hardened as her grin became sinister.“You already did it once, and to girls I think you cared about a lot more than Adrienne. Once a cheater, always a cheater, Ben.” And then she lunged with her hips, ready to impale herself on my prod.
   But I’d already started rolling away. She was just a split-second too late, because when she lunged, I wasn’t there anymore and once out of alignment, her crotch just pushed on the side of my prick.
   Seems like I’ve got a conscience after all.
   Hurriedly, I scrambled off the bed. I feared that if I even dared to turn around I would surely give in and fuck her, my cock still throbbing and screaming at me angrily to get inside the hot pussy.
   “Ben!” Elyse shrieked in panic when I moved off. “Ben, you fucking come back here!”
   I was already rolling off the bed and actually stumbled to my knees. Elyse was still howling as I got to my feet, and then with three quick steps, I got to the door and flung it open. It hadn’t been 30 minutes, but I didn’t care.
   “BEN! YOU FUCKING FUCKER OF A FUCK!” Elyse screeched behind me as I went outside, and I turned to see Adrienne and Mizuho sitting together on a couch, both of them fully dressed.
   Adrienne gasped when she saw me, her eyes going wide and her jaw dropping. Without another word I hurried forward towards her, my cock erect and bouncing. She stood up and the next moment, I was holding her in my arms, clutching her tightly to my naked body.
   “Ben!” Elyse came outside as she yelled. “I’ll tell! I’ll tell the whole fucking school!”
   I winced, thinking that I might be the cause for Adrienne to be hurt should Elyse follow through and spill her secret, whatever that secret was. It wouldn’t be fair. Adrienne HAD taken the dare. But Elyse just might be vindictive enough that she’d do it anyways.
   I sighed and held a trembling Adrienne in my arms as I turned around and said,“You do and I’ll get even.”
   “How? You got nothing on me!” Elyse thundered.
   I shook my head.“I’ll just make something up. I don’t know what, just yet, but if you go back on your word and tell Adrienne’s secret, I’ll think of something nasty. I’ll say you begged me to shit in your face. Anything’s possible. And eight other witnesses saw you drag me into a bedroom to get laid.I’m a nobody, Elyse. I’ve got nothing to lose.”
   “AAARRRGGGHHH!” Elyse went apeshit. She started jumping up and down, her arms flailing as she threw the mother of all 3-year-old tantrums. And with her black hair wild and hanging in her face, she glared at me with cold green eyes before stomping over to grab her clothes and quickly shimmy into her sundress without any underwear. And without further thought, the incensed Cheer Captain snagged her shoes and her keys and stomped out the door.
   A minute later, I was still holding Adrienne when we heard the burning rubber as Elyse peeled out and drove off for destinations unknown.
   Only then did I start to relax.* * *
   Adrienne was softly crying into my chest, her whole body shuddering as I did my best to just wrap her up in a bear hug and hold her tightly. I glanced around the room and saw Mizuho watching us, but no one else.
   My eyes flickered around for an extra second before I softly asked.“Where is everyone?”
   Mizuho answered.“In their bedrooms: Summer and Jae, Candy and Trevor.”
   Curious, I let out a small smile and asked,“And Lynne?”
   Mizuho blushed.“She went into Candy and Trevor’s room. Candy had been planning this trip to give her boyfriend a threesome. That’s why she wanted to get Lynne loaded and play the game.”
   I nodded, and at that point, Adrienne stopped shuddering and pulled herself back. Tear tracks streaked down her cheeks and she looked at me as if seeing me for the very first time.“You didn’t fuck her?”
   I blinked twice and then said firmly.“No.” But then I winced and sighed, “It was close. I’ve got WAY too many hormones in me.”
   “Why didn’t you?” Adrienne asked softly. “I… I would have been… okay… with it. I wouldn’t have dumped you. I was expecting you two to do it. I mean, we haven’t talked about exclusivity or anything. And it’s not like I have a moral leg to stand on. We both know I’ve had my share of extracurricular activities.”
   I let my hands glide up to Adrienne’s cheeks, my thumbs wiping away what teardrops remained. And looking deeply into her soft hazel eyes, I asked with a quiet intensity, “Are you happier that I didn’t?”
   My gorgeous girlfriend blinked and gave me a little smile before nodding fractionally within my grasp.
   I smiled and said,“Then that’s all that matters.”
   Adrienne smiled and wrapped her arms around my neck, pulling me tightly to her in a fierce kiss.
   Now I’d felt passion from Adrienne before. She had a power and force to her nuclear kisses that were simply overwhelming. But this wasn’t one of those kisses. This was firm and passionate, but soft and yielding, more of a slow burn than a white-hot explosion. For the first time, Adrienne was kissingme as if we were making love, not just fucking each other’s brains out.
   But when she moaned into my mouth, I felt all my pent-up arousal coming back up to the surface. I’d gotten blowjobs and been teased for hours and hours on end, and now that I was with Adrienne and fully naked, my cock came alive and pressed insistently at my girlfriend’s skirt-covered crotch.
   I pulled back from the kiss just at the razor’s edge of my control. “Adrienne,” I gasped. “I’m still… I’m still pretty horny,” I warned. “You’d better stop kissing me.”
   “I’ve got a better idea.” The radiant blonde grinned. “Why don’t you take me to our room and fuck the SHIT out of me.”
   I groaned in absolute lust and desire. The animal inside had taken over. And this time nothing was going to stop me.
   And as I dragged Adrienne giggling down the hall, I heard one forlorn sigh from behind me. Mizuho had looked around, finding herself completely alone. And then she muttered,“Now what the hell am I supposed to do?”* * *
   On Sunday morning, I was up first, but had no urge to leave the bed just yet. Instead, I propped two pillows against the headboard and sat up, just thinking about everything that had happened last night.
   And I also looked over Adrienne, sleeping peacefully to my left with her back to me, the sheet tucked into her armpit but then dragging down towards the foot of the bed, which revealed the soft skin of her naked back.
   Last night’s lovemaking had been cathartic for the both of us. After all the emotional turmoil, it was a pleasurable release and even now, as I looked at her, I found that I was very fond of her.
   But I wasn’t in love. No, my heart was still aching from the sense of loss over Megan and Cassidy. I certainly didn’t feel the affection for Adrienne as I did for Keira or Dawn or Brandi. In fact, of all the girls I’d been with, I’d have to put her in a category with Dayna: Beautiful girl, wonderful in bed, but no real emotional connection.
   And yet I felt… SOMETHING… for Adrienne. I suppose it’s impossible to have sex with someone and not have your relationship changed forever. For example, a year ago if you asked me which Evans sister I cared about more, Dayna or DJ, I would have shrugged and told you they were both just friends and distant a second to Dawn. But now? Well, I’d slept with Dayna, and I would forever look at her and remember that. And so Dayna mattered more to me now than little DJ.
   Now I’d slept with Adrienne. That in and of itself would have connected me to her, a connection that was strengthened when we decided to start “dating”. But it was just dating for mutual convenience. I’d ended up with Adrienne because I had nowhere else to go and because she liked the orgasms I gave her, nothing more. I knew that if a better option than me came along then Adrienne would break up with me. We weren’t really that “attached”.
   But now I felt attached. I’d made a conscious choice to be loyal to her over banging Elyse. And for some reason, that bonded me much more tightly to Adrienne than I would have expected.
   While I ruminated on this and observed my girlfriend’s beautiful form, she began to stir awake. A few moments later, her eyes fluttered open and she rolled over to face me, looking up into my eyes since I was sitting up at an angle. Her gaze was searching, as if she was trying to peer into my soul.
   After a few moment, Adrienne scooted herself closer to me. Wordlessly, she elevated herself just enough to rest her head on my sternum, below my chest but above my belly. And her left arm came over and wrapped around my torso while she cuddled herself closely to me.
   We lay there, unspeaking, for a long time. She was lost in her thoughts and I in mine. There were almost no movements save for the idle stroking of my left hand along her back and hip. Morning light shone through the window, revealing the blue sky. It was peaceful and quiet. We were comfortable and had no inclination to change that status.
   After a long while, Adrienne was the first to speak. Very softly, she said,“I’m going to tell you my secret, Ben.”
   That surprised me and I tilted my head to look down at her. Adrienne’s cheek was still pressed to my body and she didn’t look up. “You don’t have to,” I said sincerely.
   “I know. But I want to. After last night, you deserve to know what you ended up in the middle of.”
   Adrienne and I had never been“close”. We’d grown up on the same street but had never been real friends, and even once we started dating the relationship was the definition of casual. But given the recent bond I felt with her, learning her secret somehow felt appropriate. “Okay,” I said softly.
   Adrienne took a deep breath, shivered, and then held herself more tightly to me. And then in a weak, scared voice that I never would have associated with the usually confident, almost arrogant Adrienne, she began her narrative.
   “We met when we were ten, Ben. You remember?”
   “Yeah. I was the new kid in the neighborhood and looking for any potential friends my age. You were the same age and you werevery cute already,” I smiled at the memory. “But after the first two times we met, I never really saw you again, at least until Junior High.”
   Adrienne sighed.“I thought you were kinda cute back then, too. I wanted to be your friend, Ben. But…” She took a deep breath. “But something happened that summer.”
   There was such a sense of ominous foreboding in that sentence that I went dead quiet and stopped stroking Adrienne’s back. I even held my breath in anticipation. She glanced up at me for a brief moment before looking away. And then she continued. “Both my parents were workaholics, rarely home before nine.”
   Adrienne paused, shuddering for a second, which made me holder her even tighter to my side. She took a shaky breath and then said,“My brother… Adam… he was seventeen and going to be a Senior. My parents always left him in charge. It was normal; we hadn’t had a babysitter for three years already.”
   Adrienne shivered again.“I was an early bloomer. That summer was when I started growing breasts. It… uh… it started innocently enough. Adam would tickle me and I’d laugh and he’d end up hugging me. It took a while before I realized he was feeling me up, even though I was just ten years old.”
   My arms had gone rigid around her as I realized where this was going. My eyes went wide and when Adrienne glanced up at me, we both knew she didn’t need to go into any details. She tilted her head down and started crying. I just held on for dear life, stroking my girlfriend’s head.
   “I pleaded with him to stop over and again the first time he raped me. I remembered babbling ‘no, no, no, no, no’ the entire time while he was doing it. I was so ashamed and in such pain when it was over, I stayed in my room for dinner and Adam told my parents that I was feeling sick. They didn’t even care to come check on me.”
   I was breathing hard now, filled with fury. I imagined how I would feel if someone were doing the same to Eden or Emma, and my face filled with blood as I turned red and my arms tensed enough that Adrienne had to say softly,“Please stop holding me so tightly, Ben.”
   Immediately, I relaxed my grip. We both went silent for a minute or so.
   Then Adrienne took a deep breath and buried her face into my chest. Her voice was now a mumble as she continued,“He kept raping me all year. I didn’t really want to see anybody, so I didn’t make friends with you or even really visit my own friends. I was so ashamed. And after a while, I just stopped fighting him, resigned that he was going to do it whenever he wanted. He threatened he’d hurt me if I ever told anyone, so I never said a word. And after a while… well… I started to enjoy it. I mean, I’d still rather he didn’t fuck me, but since I was stuck there, I might as well try to get what pleasure out of it I could.”
   She sighed and closed her eyes, grimacing at the shame she was currently feeling.“By the next summer, I’d just sort of gotten used to it. I even had the occasional orgasm. We were doing it every day, except when I got my period right around when I turned eleven. But even though I was used to it, I still wished he would stop. Adam got this… evil… expression on his face when he was doing it. It was so scary I could never look at him, even while he was fucking me.”
   Adrienne’s tears were flowing constantly now and I was smoothly stroking her everywhere I could reach, doing everything I could to soothe her. Her voice cracked as she sobbed for a few moments, and then eventually collected herself. And when she spoke again, there was a firmness in her tone. “The happiest day of my life was when Adam left for college. Finally, I was free of him.”
   I started to relax. I was still angry and protective and curious all at the same time. I wanted to find Adam and beat the crap out of him. I wanted to shield Adrienne from him for all eternity. But I also wanted to know what had happened since then. It was more than five years ago.
   “Two weeks after Adam left, I missed my period. I didn’t know what to think so I didn’t say anything. It wasn’t for two months until my mom realized that she hadn’t bought me any new pads. Then she noticed my growing belly, figured it out, and made me take a pregnancy test. My parents went ballistic when they found out I was pregnant.”
   Adrienne took a deep breath. And when she was ready, her next words came out at a rapid pace.“They, of course, grilled me about everything. I broke down and told them Adam had been raping me. They immediately called him and he denied everything. But after enough threats, he changed his story and claimed that I’d seduced him. It was his word versus mine. There was no physical evidence of rape anymore. And my parents didn’t want their only son arrested anyways. So they just cut off his college fund and told him never to come home. Then my parents took me to a clinic, aborted the baby, and promptly put me on the pill.”
   Once that was all out, Adrienne exhaled a long, long breath. When the air stopped coming, she sagged against me and cuddled herself closer to my chest.
   We were quiet for another minute before I asked,“Where is he now?”
   Adrienne shivered.“I don’t know. And I don’t care.”
   “Adrienne, I’m SO sorry,” I said softly.
   She took a deep breath and then moved her elbow up so that she could look right at me, supporting her own weight.“That’s not all. Finding out that her only son had been raping her only daughter sent my mom into a deep depression. One night, she got drunk after work and wrapped her car around a telephone pole. She died instantly.”
   I blinked. I’d known her mother had died when she was younger, but never new the circumstances were so dark. How much tragedy had this girl endured?
   Adrienne then stared off at nothingness to my right as she shook her head slowly.“Dad just buried himself in his work even more. He’s locked that whole part of himself away and we barely even talk anymore. He just sent me to therapists for years and threw money at me. I kept it all locked away through Junior High. And then my freshman year of High School, when the rest of this body really started filling out, I found out the power I had over guys. It was my chance to have sex on MY terms, when I was in control. If I shied away from sex, it would be like Adam still had some hold over me, making me scared of something that should feel so wonderful. So I did. I fucked. Alot. I enjoyed it. I still enjoy it.”
   Adrienne turned her eyes to me, flaming golden the way I’d started to notice they did whenever she got really intense. “So that’s my secret. I’m an incestuous slut who got raped and knocked up by my brother as a little kid.”
   I shook my head.“How could Elyse even THINK of spreading that?”
   Adrienne sighed wearily and looked away.“I don’t know. She’s…” Adrienne’s voice trailed off and she hung her head. “We used to be friends. She and Candy were like my big sisters. But this year… I dunno… she changed. Maybe it was because of Jake. The two of them used to be together. I don’t know.”
   I reached forward and stroked Adrienne’s cheek with the back of my hand. Her eyes fluttered and she leaned into my touch. “I’m sorry, Adrienne. I’m so sorry.”
   “Not your fault,” she sighed. And then she blinked a few times before smirking and reaching forward to touch my face in return. “You know Ben, you’re the first guy I’ve EVER told that to.”
   I arched an eyebrow in surprise.“Really? Why me?”
   Adrienne leaned in, kissing me softly before pulling back and then pillowing her head on my shoulder.“I don’t know. It’s just… you really are one of the nice guys, Ben. Yeah, the bad boys have always turned me on, but I never felt safe with them. I feel safe with you. AND you turn me on!” Adrienne giggled then, the first truly positive sound she’d made this entire morning.
   And then she sat up again, looking me right in the face as she held her hand to my cheek. And then with all seriousness she asked,“Ben, can we see more of each other?”
   I furrowed my eyebrows. Our relationship had been pretty casual except for this trip. Yeah, we talked at lunch. We went on a couple of dates and spent most of our time together fucking like rabbits. But from the tone in Adrienne’s voice, I was pretty sure she didn’t just mean more sex.
   “I want to get to know you, Ben, really get to know you. We’ve had fun screwing around and all that, but… I think…” Adrienne bit her lower lip. “I just want to be around you more. Does that make sense?”
   Her eyes darted back and forth in mine, and I realized that confident and in-control Adrienne was asking me something very important. She was scared, and in this moment, all I wanted to do was protect her and make her happy. Adrienne Dennis NEEDED me, and that made me feel really good inside. So I smiled and answered,“Of course.”
   Adrienne beamed, and then she leaned in and gave me a wonderful slow burn kiss.* * *
   Everyone else was up and about when Adrienne and I walked in, hand-in-hand. Conversations stopped and the room fell silent.
   Awkwardly, Adrienne and I glanced around for a second before Adrienne stammered a nervous,“What?”
   Without another word, Candy detached herself from her spot at the table and wrapped up Adrienne in a warm hug.“Oh, A.D… Honey, I’m so sorry about last night. It’s all my fault.”
   For a second, Adrienne’s eyes went up in panic as she glanced around at the assembled friends. “Wait, you didn’t TELL anyone—”
   “No, no, of course not,” Candy shushed Adrienne and looked around at the assembled friends. “No, they respect your privacy. It’s just, Elyse got really vicious there at the end and it’s my fault for letting the game get so out of hand. I mean, we never even got into blowjobs before, let alone anything as crazy as doing shit with another girl’s boyfriend.”
   Candy then got a mysterious smile on her face.“I mean, I know weplanned to get… well, you know…”
   Adrienne nodded and Trevor smirked. They’d been making references to some weird plans all weekend and I was really starting to wonder what the hell was going on.
   Then Candy continued,“But not on Truth or Dare night. Not while we’re all drunk and stoned and bad shit can happen. It’s all my fault.”
   Adrienne shook her head.“Not your fault. We were ALL bombed. We ALL let the game get out of hand.”
   “Still, it’s my house,” Candy protested. “I could have stopped things way before Elyse dragged Ben into a bedroom.”
   Adrienne shrugged and then squeezed my hand, smiling widely.“No biggie. My man stayed true.”
   Candy smiled too and glanced over at me.“Yeah, Mizu told us.” And then Candy directed her friend into the kitchen. “Come on. Let’s get some food in you guys and then we’ll make sure we have a great day today.”* * *
   It was a great Spring Break day. We hit the beach again and did some surfing and hanging out. Adrienne played in the water with me for what felt like hours, and once we’d exhausted ourselves she rented a hammock and we cuddled up together, my girlfriend sleeping on my chest while we dozed the day away.
   In fact, rarely were we not touching each other. I felt an overpowering need to be in close proximity to her, to always keep her within arm’s reach. Not just for the electric thrill of her touch, but because I had a sense of responsibility. I NEEDED to protect her from… whatever.
   And that was why once the afternoon hit, I was also hit with a deep melancholy. See, the deal was for me to drive home today. My parents had only granted me the weekend.
   Adrienne, on the other hand, was staying with her friends. Her dad didn’t care if she came home, so she’d always planned to spend the week in La Jolla. And so I was deeply saddened by the knowledge that after spending almost 48-hours straight with her, including two overnights, that I would soon be parted from her. We’d bonded more in two days than we had in theprevious six years, and I didn’t want our time to end.
   Neither did Adrienne, which was why she asked me to ask my parents for an extension.“C’mon, Ben. Please? I need this. I need at least one more night with you.”
   And Adrienne wasn’t the only one. Candy was giving me suggestive looks and Mizuho leered at me with obvious desire. The three girls together pleaded for me to spend a little more time with them. And from the looks they were exchanging with each other, they would certainly make it worth my while.
   They hadn’t needed to spend so much effort. It didn’t take much convincing to getme to make the call. It was my parents who would need the convincing. So an hour before dinnertime, about when I was supposed to return home, I went into a bedroom to make the call and Adrienne followed me to listen.
   My dad picked up the phone when I called the house.“Ben! Are you heading home now?”
   “Uh, about that Dad,” I drawled, trying to figure out my words. “I’m asking if you’ll let me stay a little longer.”
   “Longer?” There was disappointment in his voice. “That wasn’t part of the deal, Ben.”
   “I know, I know. It’s just, I’m having a really good time and, uh, I really, really want just one more day.”
   “Ben, your birthday is tomorrow. Your mother and I have made plans.”
   “I know, I know it’s my birthday,” I replied. Adrienne’s eyes popped open. Somehow, I’d never told her that little bit of information. “Look, just one more night. How about I come up right after lunch? I’ll be back before you guys get home from work.”
   Dad sighed and I heard him muffle the receiver, probably so he could talk to my mom. A minute later, he came back and said,“It’s a Monday. You’re supposed to be watching your siblings tomorrow, Ben. They’ll be home all day.”
   “Brooke’s almost fifteen, Dad. She can handle the twins.”
   He muffled the receiver again. And a moment later, my mom came on the line.“Are you behaving yourself, Ben? Not getting into trouble?”
   “Absolutely, mom” I replied with confidence, only then remembering that I HAD tried a little weed, against my parents’ no-drugs order. But it was harmless.
   “Alright then,” she was already saying. “You be home promptly by 4pm. I’ll have Brooke rat on you if you’re late, understand young man?”
   I couldn’t contain my joy. “Yes! Yes, understood!”
   “Don’t sound too excited, Ben,” Mom warned. “You might make me suspicious.”
   Immediately I tamped down on my enthusiasm.“No, no, Mom. I’m just happy to spend another day with Adrienne.”
   My girlfriend beamed and wrapped her arms around me. Her giggle was probably loud enough to be heard over the telephone receiver.
   I heard my mom chuckle on the line.“Okay. See you tomorrow Ben.”
   “Bye, Mom.”
   This time, when Adrienne kissed me, it was one of those nuclear kisses that would have knocked my socks off, were I wearing any.* * *
   Adrienne and I were a different couple that night than we’d ever been before. We’d always been affectionate, but that was a playful, sexual affection, like Adrienne jacking me beneath my shorts in front of Mizuho and Lynne the first night. We were teenagers in lust.
   But this night, we acted much more like a couple in love. I couldn’t take my eyes off her for the entire night. At dinner, we ordered in sushi and fed each other off our plates. Our legs stayed pressed together while our feet kept rubbing against one another beneath the dining table. Everyone else could tell the difference, and the other girls looked on in sweet appreciation while the guys seemed proud and happy for me.
   After dinner, while we mixed up a few cocktails and passed around a few joints, we all avoided going quite so far as the craziness of the previous night. So while we all got pleasantly buzzed, no one got bombed and the evening was spent in pleasant bliss. The ocean breeze wafted through the room, the music was soothing and peaceful, and the feeling of cuddling up with Adrienne made me feel as happy and relaxed as I’d ever been in my life. It was as if we were living in a magical place far away from the drudgeries of schoolwork and parents, where nothing existed but our growing feelings for each other. I had no idea how our relationship would change once we got back to school and the real world, but for now, I was enjoying what we had.
   I returned one time from fetching the girls a few extra drinks to find Adrienne, Candy, and Mizuho huddled together in deep conversation. I went to go deliver the drinks but Trevor caught my elbow and held me back for an extra minute.
   “Just hang back for a second, bro.”
   I arched an eyebrow at the tall jock but he went on,“Trust me. Candy gave me the ‘hang back’ look. And when the girls get together and talk like they’re doing right now, good things usually happen to you.” He had a little grin on his face while nodding knowingly.
   So I hung back and waited for the little mini-conference to break up, and when it did, Candy separated and came over to me and Trevor. As she approached, the hot brunette gave me a little wink while her blue eyes sparkled. And then she said,“You’ve got an incredible girlfriend, Ben. I’m very thankful you’re making her happier than she’s been in a long time.”
   Not sure how to react, I just shrugged.“Uh, yeah. I’m doing my best.”
   Candy just smiled, and then she led Trevor back into the group. And then we all moved back into place to chat and relax the evening away.
   “What was that all about?” I asked Adrienne.
   “You’ll see… later,” my girlfriend giggled. Now whatever Adrienne was discussing with the girls, her conversation seemed to have aroused her, because my girlfriend was a little friskier than before.
   Soft caresses turning into urgent petting. Urgent petting turned into stolen kisses. And when stolen kisses turned into full-blown making out, Candy laughed and told us to get a room.
   Giggling, Adrienne then stood and took my hand. And almost shyly, she led me out of the lounge and headed me off towards our bedroom. Behind us, I heard the sounds of people shifting and glanced back just for a moment, seeing that the other six people were all huddled together as Candy was saying something.
   Curious, I slowed down, ready to turn and find out what they were all discussing without us, but Adrienne tugged me a little harder and I let her take me away to our bedroom.
   Perhaps ten minutes of foreplay later, we were both ready as Adrienne opened her arms and gleefully accepted my cock inside her. And at the moment we were fully joined, she also took my tongue into her mouth, holding my head as she gave me the slow burn kiss of passion and affection that warmed my entire body and made me feel all fuzzy inside.
   That night, we made love. We didn’t fuck. We didn’t just have sex. We actually “made love”, in every sense of the phrase. It was a first for us. Every time we’d gotten together before had been purely for slaking our mutual lust. It had merely been purposeful desire to have fantastic orgasms. Even last night after the Elyse-debacle had been a sexual frenzy of pent-up tension, arousal, and emotion.
   But on this night, Adrienne and I truly made love. It was tender, it was soft, it was very fulfilling. She only came once, but when she did, I was cumming with her, our entire bodies pressed together from head to toe as tightly as we could make it, yearning to make ourselves into a single body as I filled her up with the essence of my soul.
   And we only did it once. I probably could have gone again, but Adrienne smiled enigmatically and told me to save my energy. And then we spooned together in a loving embrace, and peacefully, we drifted away to sleep.* * *
   It was the best sleep of my life. No longer were Adrienne and I sleeping at opposite ends of the bed while yanking the blankets back and forth. In fact, I don’t think we even moved all night, because I woke up in the exact same position in which I went to sleep. Also, the blankets looked like they hadn’t even disturbed.
   Adrienne was actually awake before me, her eyes open as she lay unmoving in my embrace, just enjoying the feel of me wrapped around her body. But when she realized I was up, she spun in my grasp and tilted her head up to kiss me.
   A moment later, she pulled away and giggled.“Your morning breath is pretty bad, Ben.”
   Immediately, I covered my mouth.“Oh, sorry.”
   She giggled.“Don’t worry. Just go brush your teeth. Oh, and start the shower. I’ll be right there.”
   I arched an eyebrow. In the course of our usual routines for the previous two mornings, we had yet to take a shower together.“You’re coming with me?”
   She grinned.“What, you don’t want me to come join you this morning?”
   My eyes perked open.“One shower, coming right up.”
   I went and did my morning thing before starting up the shower. I just finished shampooing my hair when the door opened and a gloriously naked Adrienne stepped in to join me. Almost immediately, her blonde hair darkened and slicked back against her scalp. Her large, firm breasts were wet and glistening. And her eyes sparkled golden as she pulled me to her in a warm, slow burn kiss.
   I took great pleasure that morning in soaping up her entire body. I also tried shampooing her hair, but my fingers kept getting tangled up and Adrienne relocated my palms to her tits again, keeping me occupied while she finished with her hair.
   We didn’t have sex in the shower or anything, but I did get partway through a handjob as Adrienne made sure my cock was squeaky clean and fully erect by the time we stepped out. And then Adrienne made sure my cock was fully dried off, a stimulating process that ensured I wasn’t going down anytime soon.
   And as I returned the favor by making sure every single droplet of water had been removed from the gorgeous blonde’s incredible body, Adrienne fixed her hair up into one of my personal favorite looks. Her long, straight, silky locks were parted right down the middle of her head and then tightly pulled back at an angle and bundled together. Sometimes Adrienne would curl the two bundles into some strange but exciting pretzels that seemed more at home in a Chinese massage parlor. On days like today, she simply turned them into long ponytails that simultaneously made her look like the 16-year-old teenager she was and also invited me to tug on them excitedly. It was a look that always signified her playful mood and I wondered just what she had in store for me today.
   Just before we exited the bathroom, Adrienne pulled me to her and gave me a nuclear kiss that curled my toes. My hard-on was pressing against her belly and if she kissed me a second longer, I would have skipped the damn bed and just taken her right there on the bathroom floor.
   But she didn’t kiss me that extra second longer. She stopped right at the edge of my limit, pulled her face back, and husked, “Happy birthday, Tiger.”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Tiger?”
   “You’re my tiger in bed. Don’t forget it.”
   I grinned.“Of course not.”
   And with that, Adrienne popped the door and led me through. And then I stopped dead in my tracks. There, in our bedroom, were six people waiting for us. All were completely naked, just like me and Adrienne, and my eyes bugged out as I ogled all the girlflesh I could.
   And while I looked around in mild confusion, Candy Carter, hot brunette, best friend of Adrienne, and girlfriend of Trevor Hansen, stepped forward, wrapped her arms around my head, and planted a firm kiss on my lips.
   I was in such shock that I didn’t really kiss back, and then the beautiful senior cheerleader stepped back and batted her blue eyes at me. “Happy birthday, Ben.”
   My eyes flew open wide as I was still in a state of shock, but I managed to mutter,“Uh, thanks.” And then I looked in a panic at Adrienne. I hadn’t MEANT to do anything that might be construed as cheating on her; it just happened. But to my surprise, Adrienne was just grinning and nodded her head for me to face forward again.
   Mizuho stepped forward, resting her fingers against my cheeks as she leaned forward and tenderly rubbed her lips against mine, nuzzling side-to-side before pulling me closer and pushing her tongue into my mouth. I gasped at the pleasurable sensations and the cute Japanese girl hummed into my mouth before pulling away and saying in her cute accent,“Happy birthday, Ben.”
   Summer was next, her sweet California surfer girl face breaking into a wide smile as she wrapped me up in her arms, crushing those big silicone tits into my chest. And when she kissed me it was the firm kiss of a girl going for broke, and she rubbed her crotch against my erection.“Happy birthday, Ben.”
   Last was little Lynne, who had to get on her tiptoes and pull my head down to hers as she gave me a very sweet kiss and then smiled. And when she sank back down onto her heels, my dick sort of got trapped against her belly and it bobbed and bounced once she backed away. With a giggle, Lynne said,“Happy birthday, Ben.”
   And with that, the four girls stepped back, two of them retreating to their boyfriends. I had the biggest grin on my face.“Wow.”
   Adrienne giggled,“Aren’t you glad you stayed an extra night?”
   I nodded and bowed to the girls.“Thank you.”
   They all smiled back at me and for the first time, I really felt like I belonged with this crowd. I wasn’t just Adrienne’s boyfriend, an intruder to the social circle. I was part of them. And as if to emphasize that point, Candy put her hands on her hips, posing quite sexily in a way that drew my attention to her nice tits and neatly trimmed bush. She looked significantly at Adrienne. “Ready toparty, A.D.?”
   Adrienne beamed, nodded her head, and then slipped her hand into mine, tugging me forward.
   The others started filing out of the bedroom back into the big lounge, and I leaned down to my girlfriend’s ear and asked, “What’s going on?”
   Adrienne giggled.“The reason we all came down here in the first place, Tiger.”
   I still didn’t yet understand. But then Trevor reclined across the long, 3-cushion couch and Candy straddled his face while Lynne knelt on the floor next to his hips, already bending over to take his thick cock into her mouth. Summer pushed Jae into the wing chair, spreading his legs while she knelt before him and similarly inhaled her boyfriend’s prick.
   And then to my surprise, Mizuho came over and pushed me into a seated position on the 2-cushion couch, kneeling in front of me while Adrienne grinned and took the spot beside me.
   Now honestly, I was a bit slow on the uptake. I think I was still just too surprised to really have it all sink in. And even then, I didn’t quite realize what I was getting myself into until Mizuho looked up at me through heavy lidded eyes and husked, “You have a beautiful cock, Ben. I’m going to enjoy fucking you.”* * *
   It was an orgy. My first orgy. Sure, I’d had a four-way group sex thing with Dawn, Dayna, and Brandi back at camp, even though I hadn’t really done anything with Brandi at the time. But this was EIGHT PEOPLE.
   Not that it was out of control or anything. There were basic ground rules as Adrienne whispered them into my ear: girlfriends didn’t fuck anyone but their boyfriends. Boyfriends just got weird if that rule was violated; I could understand. That meant Trevor was the only one to stick his cock into Candy’s pussy, Jae was the only one to fuck Summer, and I was the only one pushing my dick into Adrienne. But there weren’t many rules beyond that.
   For example, Mizuho wasn’t currently attached to anyone. So after she went down on me and made sure I was good and hard, the slender Japanese babe stood up, turned around, and then backed herself onto my cock until she had all seven-and-five-eighths of me buried inside her twat. My girlfriend clearly didn’t mind, because almost immediately Adrienne was on her knees between both mine and Mizuho’s legs, tonguing the Asian girl’s clit even as I thrust my cock in and out of Mizuho’s tight pussy.
   Over to my right, while Candy was writhing on top of her boyfriend’s mouth, Lynne (who wasn’t attached either) was bouncing up and down Trevor’s dick, his big rod seeming to stretch the petite girl’s snatch almost painfully.
   And across the way, Summer had climbed into Jae’s lap, athletically riding him while using the chair’s backrest as leverage to really vault herself up and down his shaft.
   Between seeing the live sex acts around me, hearing the ecstatic groans and moans, and feeling Mizuho’s tight tunnel gripping my cock, I was in sexual heaven.
   “Ohhh, fuck,” I grunted while reaching my hands around to palm Mizuho’s tits, squeezing them and rubbing her mammary flesh while she bounced away on top of me. I reveled in the sensations of fucking a girl I’d never been with before, that mental knowledge stoking my lust even higher as I gripped and caressed and yanked her body around my impaling rod.
   “Mm! Mm! Mm!” the beautiful Japanese girl whimpered in a relatively high-pitched voice, clenching her inner muscles as the feeling of thick cock and Adrienne’s tongue was sending her into orbit.
   When I started getting close, I gripped Mizuho’s hips and slammed her down into my lap, pinning her there as I began to rotate her hips laterally around my pole, Adrienne having a much easier time now concentrating on her cheerleader friend’s clit since it was no longer rising and falling six inches every second. And after a few more seconds of feeling tight pussy wrapped around me, I grunted out a warning, “I’m gonna cum! I’m gonna cum!”
   “Hai! Cum in me!” Mizuho cried. “Cum in me!” A moment later, I did, and as she felt my hot semen bathing her innards, the sexy teenager threw her head back and shrieked as she came as well.
   After I was done creaming Mizuho, she fell sideways across the couch, and Adrienne followed after her, noisily slurping up her boyfriend’s jizz from her friend’s pussy. And that left me a few seconds on my own to pant and gasp and sag against the couch’s backrest.
   But my sudden availability did not go unnoticed. And when Candy saw me, I found out that the moratorium on fucking another guy’s girlfriend did not apply to blowjobs.
   The hot brunette with nice legs, a great rack, and a drool-inducing figure sauntered up and then knelt in front of me, resting her hands on top of my thighs. Her blue eyes simmered and she gave me a saucy grin.“I’ve been thinking about doing this since I first felt you up at lunch that day. I can’tbelieve no one dared me to give you a blowjob the other night.” And with that, Candy bent over and sucked my half-hard pecker into her mouth, working to revive it while she also pulled my hands around so that I could titillate her breasts.
   It was at that point that I realized I wasn’t the only “boyfriend” getting a blowjob from the wrong girl. Jae was sprawled out on the floor while Lynne bobbed her head up and down his growing erection. And Summer had Trevor’s re-growing prick trapped in her cleavage as she blew him and gave him a titfuck at the same time.
   Candy was still working my cock enthusiastically when Adrienne returned to me. Mizuho went off to join Lynne in double-teaming Jae while Summer had moved into a sixty-nine with Trevor. And with my dick still halfway into Candy’s throat, my girlfriend started whispering in her ear.
   A few seconds later, Candy pulled off me and giggled.“Cool. But let me have his cum, please?”
   Adrienne grinned.“Sure.”
   Candy then rolled her eyes up to me.“Promise you’ll cum in my mouth, Ben.”
   I blinked twice in surprise.“Uh, okay,” I grudgingly accepted with a wry grin on my face. “I can do that.”
   And without further ado, Adrienne tackled her best friend, french kissing the brunette madly and sending them rolling across the soft carpet until they eventually came to rest and continued caressing each other’s bodies. I took my cock into hand and continued jacking myself, just maintaining my erection as Candy and Adrienne gradually moved into a sixty-nine position, my girlfriend on top as the two beautiful babes dyked it out with great enthusiasm.
   But I wasn’t left alone to my own devices. Just after they got started, Adrienne picked her head up and glared at me with brightly burning golden eyes. “Get over here and FUCK me, Ben!” she ordered.
   “Yes ma’am,” I grinned and hustled around to kneel behind Adrienne’s wriggling ass.
   I paused for a moment to admire the view. Adrienne was certainly the hottest girl on campus. The way her hips flared around a narrow waist was mathematical perfection. The way her back curved was graceful beauty. Her skin tone was so creamy and yet tanned just the right shade. And at this moment, in this position, she simply had the most exquisite-looking ass imaginable. And grinning with a HUGE male ego, I aimed my rod and pushed my way into the one pussy every guy at school wished he could be inside.
   “Fuck, yeah! Ben!” Adrienne crooned. “So big inside me! So good, baby! Now FUCK ME!” So I did.
   With long, powerful strokes I drilled the gorgeous blonde. Her tight snatch gripped and squeezed my shaft, sending bursts of pleasure shooting up my spine that spread across my body in a spreading cloud of ecstasy. And things only got better when Candy moved her head back just far enough to lick my balls and cause little lightning bolts through me as well.
   Meanwhile, somewhere on the floor behind us, Jae was screwing Mizuho in a missionary position, only his angle was off ten degrees to the left so that he could shove his face into Lynne’s pussy and eat her out at the same time while the petite brunette moaned and pressed his face even deeper into her crotch.
   Back on the couch, Trevor was straddling Summer’s chest, fucking her cleavage. And then we all heard his desperate grunting as he suddenly elevated and started jerking his cock, splattering his load all over Jae’s girlfriend’s impossibly vertical tits. We all just got even more turned on when Summer started scooping the jism off her own chest, popping her fingers into her mouth with a naughty smile. And when the big jock was done, Trevor dropped down and passionately kissed Summer, husking, “Oh, shit, baby. I so wish I could fuck you.”
   “Tsk, tsk,” Summer tapped his nose. “This is fun, big boy, but don’t forget the rules. This pussy belongs to Jae.”
   At that point, the clenching inside the pussy belonging to ME got my attention, and soon I was pounding my way through Adrienne’s extreme tightness as she crested over into her climax, dumping a load of honey down onto Candy’s face.
   “Aaaagghhhh!” Adrienne screamed. “I’m cumming Candy! I’m cumming on your tongue! I’m cumming Ben! I’m cumming on your cock!”
   Adrienne was already twitching in the throes of her climax when Candy suddenly pulled her head back and growled at me,“Fuck her ass, Ben! Do it quickly! Shove that cock into her ass!”
   My eyes flew open wide in surprise. But Adrienne moaned and I quickly got over my shock, pulling my prick out and aiming my dickhead a little higher. Candy reached her hands up and pulled my girlfriend’s buttcheeks apart, making my target clear. And Adrienne herself was trembling and helpless, her head hanging down between her shoulder blades, her ass wriggling to try and get me inside. And with one swift lunge, I burrowed deep into this gorgeous teenager’s asshole.
   “AAAAHHH!” Adrienne screamed again, tripped over into another climax by the sensation of Candy’s lips wrapped around her clit and my thick dick penetrating her rectum. And together, Adrienne’s best friend and boyfriend continued working her over, prolonging her orgasms until she reached themost exquisite heights of ecstasy. And she whimpered even louder when I reached forward and collected her twin ponytails into my right hand, tugging her head back lightly for short bursts while reaming out her stretched anal chute.
   My tugging back on Adrienne’s head meant that she couldn’t properly eat out her best friend any longer. Candy didn’t seem to mind, however, switching her focus to licking my balls as they slowly swung back and forth over her face, pushing me towards my own eruption.
   But before I could get there, we all heard Jae’s groans of pleasure as he slammed down into Mizuho and filled her up with a fresh batch of cum. Still, I wasn’t very far behind. Already close to my pleasure limit, my urgent humping against Adrienne’s asscheeks sped up on the final stretch to ejaculation.
   Candy recognized this and she moaned,“Don’t forget your promise!”
   I groaned, half in disbelief that she still wanted me to blow my load into her mouth even though I was currently pistoning my cock in and out of Adrienne’s asshole. “You sure?” I gasped, holding onto the last shreds of my orgasmic control.
   “Yes!!! Gimme!” Candy moaned urgently.
   A promise was a promise, and after one, two, three heavy thrusts into Adrienne’s asshole from behind, I yanked myself out, already feeling my prick twitch with the early-warning rumbles of an impending eruption.
   Candy was ready. Her hand snagged me mid-air and pulled me down to her mouth. And once she settled the mushroom head inside her upside-down lips, she gave me a couple quick squeezes, enough to set me off as I blew, pouring my load into her sucking mouth, reveling in the experience of spunking into my teenage girlfriend’s hot best friend’s throat.
   The beautiful brunette’s sparkling blue eyes popped wide open as she felt the first jets of spunk splash against her tongue. I watched her cheeks caving as she sucked and swallowed me down, and grunting with wondrous relief I emptied out the contents my balls into her mouth.
   And when I was done shooting, I leaned back and collapsed flat onto my butt, barely keeping myself upright with my hands planted to the floor behind me. Petite Lynne wasn’t too far away, her knees propped up as she lay on her back, idly playing with herself as she glowed post-orgasm while smiling at me and ogling my not-yet-deflated prick. And in front of me, Adrienne had toppled off of Candy and turned about, leaning over the hot brunette and kissing her friend softly while tasting my flavor on Candy’s lips.
   I groaned,“I wish I didn’t have to leave.”
   Candy giggled.“Well then, you’ll have to talk your parents into letting you come back down.”
   In the meantime, Lynne rolled over and caught my eye, smiling at me while looking up and down my body suggestively. And Mizuho was already getting up and heading for Trevor, to whom she grinned and asked,“Ready for round 3, big boy?”* * *
   Things were surprisingly comfortable and casual at lunch. While everyone had cleaned up and redressed, Mizuho and Summer both didn’t bother to button their shirts all the way and neither girl seemed to mind that their tits were on semi-display. Also, as I looked around the lounge, there were no embarrassed expressions or feelings of regret.
   Mizuho seemed particularly pleased, having been fucked by all three boys and eaten by both Candy and Adrienne.“Great plan, guys,” she commented. “We shoulda done this more often.”
   Lynne giggled and slapped her friend’s arm. “Slut.”
   “You’d better believe it!” Mizuho smiled.
   I lay my head back and hugged Adrienne more tightly to me. NOW I understood what all the veiled“planning” references were about. And I wondered what further plans they had for the rest of the week.
   But all too soon, it was time for me to go home. I didn’t want to leave, but I couldn’t abandon my family when they wanted to celebrate my birthday. Still, I couldn’t think of anything my parents could do that would top my birthday morning.
   And I didn’t want to leave Adrienne. Just when I felt our relationship was turning a corner and I saw a world of possibilities opening up between us, we were about to be parted. She would be here, in paradise with her friends and a few hot guys while I had to return home. And as we drew to the appointed hour I felt my heart sinking in sadness.
   But then to my surprise, when I announced I had to pack, Adrienne stood up beside me and said she had to pack as well. When I turned and arched an eyebrow at my girlfriend, she said simply,“I’m going home with you.”
   Candy was the first to wonder aloud.“What? I thought you were staying with us!”
   I’d thought Adrienne was staying as well. The original plan was for her to stay the entire week, and even yesterday she’d asked for just one more night. Only one. But even though I wasn’t expecting her to return, I couldn’t hide my happiness that she was coming home with me. “Really?”
   “Yeah,” Adrienne sighed happily as she looped her arms through mine and kissed my cheek. “It’s Spring Break, with no school. And I want to spend as much time as I can next to the man I’m falling in love with.”
   Chapter 14: ReconnectingAPRIL 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   The drive home gave Adrienne and me over an hour to chat. I was still surprised by her statement of falling in love with me, but I couldn’t sort out my own feelings for her. At least, not enough to discuss it just yet.
   Instead, I asked her about the crazy past few days.“So…” I waved one hand in an ‘all-this’ gesture while steering with my other hand. “Is this something you guys do often?”
   “What, get a small group together and crash somebody’s beach house? Yeah, sometimes.” Adrienne smiled at me from the passenger seat. “You should see Mizuho’s dad’s place in Newport. It’s HUGE.”
   I coughed nervously.“Uh, well, more than just the house parties. Do you guys… uh…”
   Adrienne figured out where I was going.“We’re not always this wild and crazy. We don’t get stoned and have wild sex every weekend or anything. But on some special occasions, like Spring Break, a few of us will… experiment… a little.”
   I glanced over at her.“I’m not complaining or anything. It’s just… this has been the most outrageous weekend of my life. I’d never even smoked pot before Friday night.”
   Adrienne giggled.“I figured.”
   “And that Truth or Dare game? When you told me you usually didn’t do anything overt like blowjobs, I started to think that was as crazy as things got.” I shook my head in disbelief. “But then this morning? I mean, by definition, that was anorgy, wasn’t it?”
   Adrienne laughed.“Yeah, yeah. Actually, that was only the second time we all had an orgy. The first time was last summer. We were all a little nervous, but everyone came out of it without any major regrets. The rules helped a lot. And we made sure to keep the weed and alcohol out of it, so people didn’t get outof control.”
   My girlfriend sighed in satisfaction and stretched her limbs out while sinking deeper into her seat.“So for this Spring Break, Candy and I put together this specific group and planned to… well… have at least one big sex party.”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Even Elyse?”
   Adrienne immediately frowned and her hazel eyes darkened.“No. Not Elyse. We weren’t expecting her to just show up. Something must have gone wrong for her to arrive unannounced and to also put her in that bitchy mood. I mean, I knew she didn’t like me very much, but I never thought she’d get that vicious. If she hadn’t left, I don’t think we would have gone through with the orgy. It’s one of the reasons I really wanted you to stay an extra day, so we could still do it. So… happy birthday, Ben.”
   I grinned.“I can’t imagine a better birthday.” Adrienne had actually helped me fuck Mizuho. And then I’d nailed my girlfriend while she was sixty-nining her best friend. I blushed as that thought came to mind. I’d been boinking Adrienne regularly for the past few weeks, but this weekend I’d seen another side of her I wasn’t expecting. She’d enthusiastically gone down on Candy and Mizuho and it was clear those weren’t the first times.
   Adrienne figured out I was working up the nerve to ask her something and she rolled her eyes.“Spit it out, Ben.”
   “Well,” I stammered. “I was wondering… uh… are you, uh, bi?”
   Adrienne giggled.“Why? Did seeing me with the other girls turn you on?”
   “Hell, yeah.” My eyes flared as I broke into a wide, knowing grin.
   She gave me an odd look.“Have you ever been with a bisexual girl, Ben?”
   I blushed and thought of Dawn, Dayna, and Brandi. Slowly, I nodded.“Yeah I have. So really, it’s not a big deal if you are. I’m not judgmental. It IS pretty hot.”
   “Megan and Cassidy?” she asked with a good imitation of my arched eyebrow.
   I shook my head.“No, they’re not. Others.”
   “Hmm… there’s a lot more to you than I realized. What I wouldn’t give to seeyour purity test. Anyways, yeah, I’d consider myself bisexual. I mean, Candy and I go crazy together some weekends. Don’t get me wrong, Ben. I’m not in love with her and I love men so much more. But I do love the touch of another girl, just for the pleasure of it. Does it bother you? I mean, are you going to ask me to stop with Candy because of our relationship?”
   “No, no. Go right ahead, whenever you want,” I shook my head. “Just as long as I get to watch sometimes,” I smiled.
   “Deal.”
   “Are all of you bisexual?”
   “Nah. Candy and Mizuho, yes. Summer and Lynne will both make out with other girls to excite the guys, butjust to excite the guys. They’re both pretty straight and I’ve never seen them go past kissing.” Adrienne nodded. “Hell, Lynne’s pretty buttoned-up, period. If you remember, while she gave blowjobs and got eaten, she only had sex with Trevor. She guards her pussy and doesn’t put out easily, not after getting her heart broken by Eric Bradford. And she only did it with Trevor because she’s been crushing on him for AGES.”
   I shook my head.“This is all just so crazy.”
   “Wellll…” Adrienne purred as she half-crawled out of her seat and moved up to my ear. “Don’t be surprised if I bring us a playmate in bed, Tiger. I’ve got some fantasies that require both a hot chick and a young stud like you who can keep up.”* * *
   It took just a little longer than usual to make it back home. Adrienne got antsy and decided to fish out my cock and give me a blowjob right there on the freeway, just past the nuclear power plant at San Onofre. I had to move into one of the slower lanes so that I could concentrate on not crashing. I think I was down to fifty-five by the time I painted my girlfriend’s tonsils with my cum.
   Twenty minutes later, I pulled up outside Adrienne’s house and walked her to the front door, carrying her suitcase. Since the place was empty, I went inside with her and she promptly shoved me against the wall and stuck her tongue down my throat.
   “Do you have time for a quickie?” she husked.
   Groaning, I checked my watch. It was already 3:50pm.“Crap, no.”
   Adrienne pouted but then she pulled my head to hers for a nuclear kiss. And when she sat back, still tasting her own lips, she sighed.“I meant what I said, Ben. I’m falling for you.”
   My eyebrows canted to the sides as I suddenly felt nervous. I was still less than a month removed from dating Megan and Cassidy, even though it felt like an eternity had passed. And my heart was really, really confused. I was feeling VERY strongly bonded to Adrienne, and certainly attracted, but I still missed my ex-girlfriends. I had the new“falling in love” excitement with Adrienne, but I didn’t trust the feeling yet.
   I was torn, and Adrienne could see it. She reached forward and hugged me.“Hey, hey, I didn’t say that to put any pressure on you. I just wanted you to know how I honestly felt. I don’t think I’ve ever been in love before, Ben. I don’t yet know if I’ll ever be in love with you. But… but just being with you makes me feel so happy and giddy that I can’t describe it in any other way.”
   Adrienne reached forward, held my head, and tenderly rubbed her lips against mine. Then she rubbed her nose against me in an Eskimo kiss. The gorgeous blonde’s eyes were closed and she seemed to just be inhaling my scent, reveling in the feeling of closeness and comfort. And then she leaned back and sighed happily.
   But soon her sunny expression was darkened by a small frown.“Look, Ben. I know I’m not a very good person. I’ve done some bad things in my life and I’m not proud of the way we got together. I stole you from your girlfriends. But I don’t regret it. However it happened, it brought me you.”
   She smiled.“You know, you’re the first guy I ever let myself begin to trust. Every other boyfriend I’ve had would have nailed Elyse in a second. Jake, Robbie, whoever. But you resisted her.” Adrienne grinned. “You know, that kind of makes me proud that I managed to tempt you into straying.”
   I knew she meant it in a nice way, but the reminder of me cheating on Megan and Cassidy made me frown and feel pained.
   “Oh, there I go again,” she flustered. “I’m going to work on those urges, Ben. I want to be better, be less of a bitch. You make me want to be a better person. And I’m going to be a good girlfriend for you.”
   I managed a smile and hugged her to me, Adrienne cooing happily as she felt me wrap my arms around her. I sighed and then muttered,“I gotta go. I’m going to be late.”
   “Go, go,” Adrienne pushed. “The last thing I need is for you to be grounded. There’s a lot more Spring Break left and I DEFINITELY need to see you every day this week!”
   She pulled me to her for a quick peck, and then I turned for the door.“I’ll call you later today, Adrienne,” I promised.
   She giggled and then turned, wiggling her perfect ass at me.“See ya later, Tiger.”* * *
   “You’re late.” Brooke folded her arms over her chest and glared at me.
   “No, I’m not.” I pointed at my watch. “It’s 3:58!”
   “It’s 4:01 on the kitchen clock,” she grinned evilly.
   “Look, I’m on time or close enough. You’re not seriously gonna rat me out to Mom are you?”
   Brooke just laughed and waved her hand as she turned away.“Nah… But you owe me.”
   Seriously, when did my little sister become such a manipulative little bitch? Was it just a matter of turning 14? If so, I was dreading the day the twins turned into evil little teenagers.“Owe you? I’ll already do just about anything you ask, Brooke.”
   My sister turned back to face me.“Not anything,” she mused with a heated, lustful look on her face. But the moment passed and her face softened. “I figure if I collect enough favors, we can negotiate.” She giggled and I started turning away.
   “By the way,” Brooke began before I got turned around. “Nice shirt. You look good in it. Sexy.” And with that, Brooke headed off.
   Shaking my head, I went into the living room to greet the twins. Eden launched herself at me first, slamming into my side as if trying to tackle me.“Ben!”
   “Oof!” I exclaimed on impact. “You’re getting too big to keep doing tha-!”
   I was cut off when Emma hit me from the other side, forcing the breath out of me again.“Where’ve you been all weekend?” Emma whined.
   “I went to La Jolla with some friends. You know that,” I reminded my littlest sister, about four minutes younger than Eden.
   “You were supposed to be back yesterday. We NEEDED you today,” Eden pouted.
   “Why?”
   “The light in our bedroom burned out. You’re supposed to be the one replacing it,” Emma answered.
   I sighed.“You guys are eleven. Surely you know how to change a light bulb.”
   “We’re not tall enough. And Brooke didn’t think it was a good idea for us to try using the ladder,” Eden insisted.
   “And it’s YOUR job, Ben. You’re our brother. You’re supposed to do these things for us,” Emma protested.
   I sighed.“Fine, fine. Let me just put my bag away and I’ll be right there.”
   “Good!” The twins both said in unison. And in perfect harmony, they turned their faces into expressions of little angels and said together, “Happy Birthday, Ben!”
   They were so adorable. We all already knew they could get me to do anything.* * *
   My parents came home just after 5pm and after their usual greetings, Mom set to whipping up my favorite foods for this birthday dinner and told me to set the table. And then as if it was justnow occurring to my dad, he asked,“Don’t you normally have a bunch of friends over for your birthday?”
   I shrugged.“I’m seventeen now. I’m getting too old for kiddie birthday parties.”
   “Hmm…” He thought about that for a second. While he knew that I’d broken up with Megan, which would explain her absence, I was pretty sure he wasn’t aware of all the drama involving Cassidy or the rest of the gang. And I wasn’t about to explain that all of my friends were currently shunning me. But then Dad sat up straight and asked, “Did Adrienne come back into town with you?”
   I put down the next glass before looking up and shrugging.“Yeah, why?”
   “Well, if she’s not doing anything tonight, why don’t you invite her? At least your girlfriend should still be celebrating such a big day with you.”
   Brooke happened to be passing by at the time and the almost 15-year-old stopped, then quickly hurried into the dining room.“Oh, yeah! Yeah, Ben! You should invite her!”
   I frowned and furrowed my eyebrows.“Why do YOU want her here?”
   “Oh, well, uh,” Brooke stammered, and then even my dad stood up and gave his third child a strange look. “Well, a few of the girls and I were thinking of joining the cheerleading squad next year. Everyone knows Adrienne’s going to be Captain and I want to get on her good side.”
   I snorted.“You’re not going to make Varsity as a Sophomore your first time out.”
   “No, but she can help make sure I make JV,” Brooke insisted firmly. “Especially since I didn’t join as a freshman, I could use the help.”
   I rolled my eyes. I wouldn’t mind Adrienne joining dinner. Any extra time around her was “good” time. But I also saw an opportunity. So I shrugged and said, “Sure. I’ll call her.”
   Brooke’s face lit up.
   Then I got an evil grin of my own as I pointedly looked at my little sister.“You oweme.”* * *
   Adrienne was delighted to join my family for my birthday dinner. She came over almost immediately and quickly charmed my mom with her polite manners and my dad with her prodigious cleavage. She then went with me into the family room to greet Brooke and also meet Eden and Emma.
   The young girls seemed delighted that such a tall and beautiful young woman was taking an interest in them and while I knew the twins loved me, I earned extra points with them for having such a pretty girlfriend. Eden and Emma were giggling and laughing constantly, and after a few minutes Adrienne turned to me and said,“You HAVE to get them into cheerleading when they get to High School. These two are SO adorable!”
   “I’m gonna join next year!” Brooke was quick to volunteer.
   “Great!” Adrienne enthused and then gave my little sister a wink. “You have any problems, you let me know. I’ll take care of everything.”
   Brooke’s eyes went wide. “Really? Wow!”
   After another fifteen minutes, we all settled down to dinner. Mom explained that everything was selected from my favorite foods. Adrienne teased me for myüber-sophisticated taste given that Mac& Cheese was one of the dishes. Afterwards, my parents brought out the cake, and then it was time for presents.
   Per usual, I picked up some video games and new DVDs. Mom got me a sweater (ugh). And then Eden piped up, asking,“Hey Adrienne, didn’t you get Ben a birthday present?”
   Adrienne blushed. She hadn’t even KNOWN it was my birthday until yesterday and hadn’t had the time or inclination to get me a gift in the short time since I dropped her off at home. But I cut in, explaining, “Adrienne gave me her present this morning.”
   “And I’ll bet she got him EXACTLY what he wanted,” Brooke said with a grin, the leer in her eyes making clear her innuendo.
   “Well, not EXACTLY what he wanted,” Adrienne drawled with a twinkle in her eyes. “It was a rather unexpected but very welcome surprise! I’m pretty sure Ben was happy.”
   Now I was blushing.* * *
   Adrienne stayed and hung out with my family for another hour. She got along famously with my parents and I was just praying my mom didn’t pull out my baby pictures. Brooke and the twins were just as enamored with my girlfriend, Adrienne proving her social skills at adapting to all audiences and ages. My family members were almost fighting each other to chat with her.
   But eventually, she announced that she should probably be heading back. It was still a weeknight and claimed she didn’t want to make her father worry. My parents nodded and they agreed when I asked, “Can I walk her home?”
   “Take your time, Ben,” Dad said warmly.
   With that, Adrienne slipped her hand into mine and she said goodbye to everyone before letting me lead her out the door.
   We hadn’t even reached the sidewalk when Adrienne squeezed my hand and sighed, “You have a WONDERFUL family. So much love and warmth.”
   “Yeah. Makes you want to strangle yourself sometime,” I deadpanned.
   “Ben!” Adrienne admonished and slapped my shoulder with her free hand. “You’re so lucky, you know that?” she scolded, and I got the veiled reference to her own fucked up family life.
   I nodded and apologized with my expression. Adrienne quickly put on her smile as we walked hand-in-hand along the sidewalk.“Anyways, now I get why you’re so comfortable around girls. Three sisters! Wait, four, right? Don’t you also have an older sister?”
   “Yeah, Brandi is at Berkeley.”
   She sighed.“Sometimes I wonder what it would have been like to have a sister… Or ANY sibling other than that creepy, evil—” Her voice started to get intense and I squeezed her hand to get Adrienne’s attention.
   “Sorry,” she muttered.
   “You’ll never have to apologize to me for him, Adrienne,” I said quietly.
   She exhaled and cuddled herself against my arm. We walked on in silence until we got to her house. And to my surprise, all the lights were still off.
   I stood with her until she unlocked the front door, pushing it open into the dark and emptiness. I couldn’t help but compare the bright cheeriness and warmth of my house, filled with people and love, versus this empty, hollow place where even her dad wasn’t home. Her face cast in shadow, Adrienne then turned to look at me.
   “Ben, will you come in for a bit? I don’t want to be alone right now,” said in a pleading voice that seemed to emanate from the darkness.
   “Well, my dad did tell me to take my time,” I reasoned. “But what if your dad comes home?”
   “He won’t be home before like ten tonight. He always stays really late at the office on Mondays.” Adrienne shrugged and then looked into my eyes, stepping forward and pressing herself against my chest. “Please?”
   “Of course,” I said with as much reassurance and warmth as I could. And so I let Adrienne take my hand and lead me in a straight line to her bedroom.
   Once there, my gorgeous girlfriend turned on only the bedside table lamp and then pushed me into a sitting position on the bed. And then without further ado, she hiked her skirt up to her waist and straddled my lap, wrapping her arms around the back of my head as she leaned in to give me a slow burn kiss.
   We sat there for what felt like hours just kissing each other, neither of us in a great hurry. My hands softly stroked her back while Adrienne wrapped her arms fully around my head, crushing me to her face and constantly shifting positions while we made love with just our mouths.
   Eventually, we had to break for air and with gentle prodding at my chest, Adrienne pushed me flat on my back. Then she sat up and opened the side zipper to her top, whipping the flimsy garment over her head and leaving her upper torso covered only by a luscious bra that just barely contained her massive mammaries. And then she looked tenderly at me while I yo-yoed my eyes to her tits and then back to her face.“Ben, make love to me tonight.”
   “Of course,” I smiled.
   “Not just sex. Not just fucking. Really make love to me? The way we did last night?” Adrienne asked with a trace of hope.
   I smiled and reached a hand up, tenderly caressing her cheek. Adrienne had been every guy’s sexual fantasy for years, built like the proverbial brick shit house. She was used to guys fucking her, taking her, violating her body. I’d done it myself many times. But somewhere inside that sex goddess, wanton slut, and teen wet dream come to life was a little girl who got raped and nevergot to experience real love and intimacy.
   I’d felt before that Adrienne NEEDED me. I didn’t know if I could love her yet, but I knew she needed me. And I wanted to fulfill that need. It just made me feel good about myself, almost as if taking care of Adrienne absolved me of my guilt over cheating on Megan and Cassidy in the first place.Like it was meant for me to end up with Adrienne.
   Somehow, we both got naked. And it was almost an accident when my cock slid into her steaming pussy. We’d been rolling around the bed together, making love with our mouths and hands, just kissing and nuzzling and caressing each other’s hot skin. And in a completely natural way, our hips moved together and then I found myself inside her, Adrienne pulling away from my lips to lean her head back, arching her neck and gasping so beautifully as she felt my hardness filling her up inside.
   “Oh, Ben!” she sighed as her legs wrapped around my hips to pull me even deeper.
   “Oh, Adrienne!” I gasped as I clutched her shoulders and buried my face against her neck. We weren’t even moving, and yet I couldn’t imagine anything better than the simple feeling of being inside of her.
   Of course, we didn’t stay unmoving forever. Adrienne was breathing shallowly when she began to roll her hips, fucking herself on me just a few inches at a time. I soon joined her rhythm, the pace coming naturally and organically, as if our heartbeats had synchronized.
   Together, we drifted off to another plane of consciousness where nothing existed but the two of us making love, our bodies surging and undulating together, as if we were dancing a tango without ever getting to our feet. Our mouths never closed, perpetually open for erotic gasps and moans and hot kisses.
   And we needed no spoken words. I heard the soft plea“Make love to me, Ben” in her every whimper. She heard “I’m making love to you, Adrienne” in my every grunt. And together we thrust and humped and grinded in harmony as our mutual orgasms built higher and higher and higher.
   And together, we went over the edge, our moans escalating into cries of ecstasy as the pleasure exploded inside both of us at the same time.
   When the rest of the world came back to me, I realized that I was on Adrienne’s bed, in her room, in her empty house. The dim light from the single bedside table lamp cast a soft yellow glow over Adrienne’s gorgeous face, reflecting the beads of sweat that dotted her forehead.
   Her eyes glowed with an internal golden luminescence. Her dainty nose peaked above her open mouth as she panted softly and stared deeply into my eyes.
   I sighed in utter satisfaction, feeling myself go limp inside her now swamped pussy. And with a little smile I bent down and rubbed my nose against hers tenderly.
   She smiled as she saw the look of utter rapture on my face, both happy with her own pleasure and thrilled that she’d given me mine. And then in a soft but clear voice, Adrienne said, “I’ve fallen in love with you, Ben. I have. I do. I love you.”
   And still riding the glow of one of the greatest orgasms of my life, I smiled and warmly replied,“I love you, too.”* * *
   Love is a tricky thing, especially for a just-17-year-old boy. It’s an extremely powerful emotion to begin with. But for teenagers, sadness becomes suicidal depression, happiness becomes boundless joy, and frustration becomes violent anger.
   And young love becomes Heaven on Earth.
   For the rest of the week, I forgot about everything else and everyone else in my life. There only existed one person… Adrienne.
   I didn’t spend my Spring Break bonding with my siblings. I didn’t have my old crew of friends to play basketball with. And even when Keira smiled and waved to me as I jogged down the street, I just gave her a short nod before hurrying up and going over to Adrienne’s house. I wascompletely infatuated with the gorgeous, busty, blonde 16-year-old who both craved my attention and wanted to fuck my brains out.
   Every day, Adrienne met me at her door with a mind-blowing nuclear kiss. Every day, we fucked like rabbits on the first surface we came across. Tuesday, it was the couch. Wednesday, it was the dining table. And on Thursday, we didn’t even make it out of the foyer.
   Once our initial lust was sated, we lounged around her house just talking and touching each other, often without bothering to put our clothes back on. She fed us just enough to get our energy back. And then we would screw some more.
   Sometimes we just fucked each other. Adrienne was a very sexual creature, multi-orgasmic and very near insatiable. She truly proved her“All-Day” nickname that week. I sprayed my load down her throat, over her face, on her tits, and in her hair. I took her in her cunt, in her ass, on top, from behind, and while she rode me. We even fucked while I was standing up and she showed off her flexibility by wrapping her legs around my waist and then arching backwards until her hands were on the floor.
   But sometimes we also made love. We cuddled and kissed softly, without tongues. Adrienne usually only had one orgasm those times, but she said that one was often more powerful than three fucking orgasms combined.
   And sometimes, we even got dressed and went back to my house to visit with my sisters. I may have had no interest in further bonding, but Adrienne was and the twins were delighted to have an older, cool girl to dispense advice on everything ranging from fashion to music to boys. And Brooke just looked at Adrienne as her idol. I learned a lot more about my girlfriend from watching her interact with my family, and I came away realizing that there was much more to her than blonde cheeriness and good looks. She had a desperate craving for family attention and an inherent sweetness in the way she dealt with my sisters.
   In one week, I felt like I got even closer to Adrienne than I had in nearly a year with Megan. After all, I was spending 8 hours a day completely alone with Adrienne, whereas my previous relationship with Megan and Cassidy mostly consisted of Monday afternoons and Friday evenings, just two partial-days out of the week and even then, splitting my attention between two girls. Everything was just accelerated with Adrienne.
   Our love for each other grew and grew and burned white hot.
   But then you know what they say about white hot love.* * *
   On Monday, back at school, I was cruising down the hallway towards my next period. Jae Choi and some of his friends passed by in the other direction. He and I exchanged greetings and went on our way. Lynne Arian and some other girls also went past and we shared little smiles. I also passed Elyse Laughton, who pointedly ignored me.
   And then a voice I wasn’t expecting called out to me. “Hey, Ben!”
   I turned and went rigidly still in shock. My jaw waggled up and down for a second as I stared at the cute redhead before me, and I stammered,“Uh, hi… uh, hi, Cassidy…” I managed to spit out.
   She snorted.“A month with the blonde bimbo and you forget my name or something?”
   “No, no. I just… uh…” I stuttered before looking slightly miffed. I was about to reprimand Cassidy for calling my girlfriend a bimbo, but then I recognized that Cassidy had every reason to hate Adrienne, so I let it slide for now and kept my mouth shut.
   Cassidy rolled her eyes.“Boys… My mom told me not to expect too much. They say boys are three years behind girls on maturity at this age. You’re barely seventeen with a 20-year-old’s dick and a 14-year-old’s brains. Happy birthday, by the way.”
   “Uh, thanks.” I looked around, consciously hunting for Megan or someone else from my crew, as if Cassidy and I would get caught and be in trouble for talking to each other. Then I looked back at my ex-girlfriend. “Uh, I thought you guys weren’t talking to me anymore.”
   She shrugged. Neither Megan nor Cassidy HAD talked to me in over two weeks. Some of the others did. Abigail and Allison Sanders had been polite, if not openly friendly. Daniel and Sung would at least acknowledge my presence and even exchange small greetings when convenient. But none of my old crew would go out of their way to hang out with me, save one. Kenny could care less about the romantic complications. We’d been buddies since fifth grade and he still hung out with me whenever he wasn’t with the old crew.
   But certainly not Megan or Cassidy. It still hurt to see them pointedly ignoring me, and to now see one of them right up front and talking to me surprised the hell out of me. But it was a pleasant surprise. I got over my initial shock and then stepped forward with a smile on my face.“Hi, Cassidy,” I said warmly, my eyes searching hers with some hope. “How’ve you been?”
   She shrugged again.“Okay, I guess. All things considering. I mean, my boyfriend DID break my heart and all,” she frowned wistfully and swayed lightly as if a breeze had come up.
   My eyebrows furrowed but Cassidy held her hand up to forestall any response from me.“Anyways,” she said. “I just wanted to tell you that we decided on a truce. Megan wants to move on, and it takes more effort to actively ignore you than to just let it go. You were her first, Ben; her firsteverything. So you’ve gotta understand that she’s pretty hurt. But boys will be boys and it’s not like we really thought we’d be together forever. So the next time she sees you, Megan’s not gonna give you the cold shoulder. Don’t expect her to be thrilled and hug you or anything, but she’ll at least say ‘hi’.”
   I let out a long breath I hadn’t even realized I was holding. In truth, Megan had been my first girlfriend as well, and I felt an overwhelming sense of relief that she might eventually stop hating me, even if she never really forgave me. That brought me up to my second girlfriend, and my gaze darted up to Cassidy’s bright green eyes. “What about you?” I asked softly. “I’m so sorry I hurt you, too, Freh-, uh, Cassidy.”
   She took a deep breath and then exhaled slowly, wrapping her arms around herself. And gradually, a smile crossed her face.“I still like it when you call me ‘Freckles’. I miss you, Ben. I never hated you. And now that Megan’s lifting the whole ‘ban on Ben’ thing, I’m hoping we can be friends again.”
   I broke out into a wide grin.“I’d really like that.”
   Cassidy smiled and without another word, she stepped forward and gave me a warm hug. And as my arms tightened around her, I felt her shudder and take a deep breath, as if she was inhaling my scent. She sagged against me and rested her forehead on my shoulder, just breathing slowly. And in a quiet voice, she murmured,“I really miss you.”
   I patted her back.“You, too, Freckles.”
   When Cassidy released me, at first she only pulled back a few inches, her face right in front of mine, and for a second I thought we were about to kiss. But then she just patted her own lips a couple times and backed further away. Her eyes were moist and a wan smile crossed her face.
   Shrugging, she lifted her headphones and popped them over her ears while turning about to walk away.“See ya around, Ben.”* * *
   Change was gradual. My old friends had almost gotten used to thinking of me as off-limits, so our initial interactions weren’t exactly comfortable. It actually took a day or two to move beyond acknowledging each other in the hallways to actually hanging out and chatting. And of course I was still eating lunch with Adrienne and her crew. But progress was being made. After all, we’d been friends since grade school.
   One of the Sanders twins would walk with me to our next class. Sung and I would discuss upcoming homework. And Megan at least said“Good morning, Ben,” when we ran into each other outside the bathrooms.
   And of course there was Kenny, asking me for advice on how to get into Mizuho Nishioka’s panties.
   By Friday, I knew I was back in the fold. I bumped into Kenny, Sung, Daniel, and Elaine all together and the boys invited me to join them for Saturday’s basketball game.
   “Great!” I answered, thrilled at the invite. “So I’ll see you all tomorrow?”
   “Yeah, but, uh, Sung here is usuallylate,” Kenny elbowed our friend in the ribs. “Did you know this guy started dating Stephanie Vo?”
   I arched an eyebrow and laughed.“No, didn’t know.” I slapped Sung on the arm. “Congrats, man. Steph’s cool.”
   Sung grinned.“At least I still show up.” He turned to Daniel. “This guy isn’t even playing ball tomorrow.”
   Daniel shrugged and looked at Elaine.“Gotta go find a tux. Prom is just around the corner.”
   “Oh, right,” I nodded. Adrienne had already insisted that we go together to the Junior Prom. But as I looked at Elaine, I was suddenly seized with a measure of guilt. Pinching my eyebrows together, I looked at her and asked softly, “Uh, are Megan and Cassidy going?”
   Elaine lifted her chin proudly.“Yeah. They’ve both got dates.”
   Feeling just a small spark of jealousy, I hurriedly asked,“Who?”
   Elaine smiled, a rather evil smile if you ask me.“Guess you’ll find out next Saturday.” And then with a little smirk, she tugged on Daniel’s arm and led the two of them away.
   I had no right to be jealous. Clearly, I’d relinquished my rights over Megan and Cassidy and on top of that, had a new girlfriend of my own.
   But I was still curious.* * *
   “Hey, Tiger.” Adrienne opened the door herself, looking absolutely stunning in a dark red dress that pooled around her curvaceous figure, highlighting everything it needed to. The plunging V-neck not only exposed her abundant cleavage, but dropped low enough to also show the undercurve of her breasts back away from each other. And the satin texture fabric promised to be soft beneath my hands and absolutely brilliant in the lights of the ballroom.
   Her light blonde hair was up and delicately twirled. Her makeup was both alluring and deeply sensual. And her hazel eyes had that golden glow that set my heart on fire. She was always GORGEOUS. But the way she looked now defied the English language.
   My eyes flew wide open. My jaw dropped. And I literally started drooling. And when Adrienne looked at me with some mild concern and said,“Ben?” I just sort of squeaked.
   “You like the dress?” she asked.
   “We can’t go,” I said with a moan of sorrow, my eyes locked onto her chest, where her big tits showed off a lushly abundant amount of flesh.
   Self-consciously, Adrienne covered her cleavage with one arm and asked in a panic,“What’s wrong?”
   Still staring in a state of stupor, I managed to croak.“I can’t… I can’t put you in my car.” My beater 11-year-old Corolla just would NOT do for such a stunning creature. “Oh, SHIT. I should have just spent the money on a limo. Holy crap, Adrienne… you’re so… exquisite. No-no-no. Wait here. I’ll, uh, I’ll call a limo company.”
   “Ben!” Adrienne giggled and then hit me with her clutch purse. “Relax.”
   But I was already hyperventilating and starting to babble. And so rolling her eyes, Adrienne simply stepped forward and planted a nuclear kiss on me, shutting me up and forcing me to stop breathing entirely.
   When she pulled away, I was in a daze, panting softly. But at least I wasn’t in a panic anymore. “Wow…” I groaned as I got my bearings and my breathing calmed down.
   “Thanks,” I started, relieved to get the panic out of the way. “But seriously, I can’t take you in my car.”
   Adrienne giggled and then pulled me inside.“Fine.” And then she turned and dug through a nearby drawer, coming out with the keys to her Mustang. With a grin, she tossed them to me. “You drive. I’ll just sit beside you and look pretty.”
   Oh I loved this girl.* * *
   Our school was big enough to have separate Junior and Senior Proms. Most of Adrienne’s friends were Seniors and wouldn’t be there, so in an odd twist to the usual social pecking order, I was actually close friends with more people than Adrienne was.
   But everyone still knew WHO Adrienne Dennis was. And as we walked in, male jaws dropped in a twenty-foot radius around us, most of them almost immediately pinched in anger by their respective dates. One guy even swore,“Holy SHIT!” when he saw Adrienne in her stunning outfit.
   On the way over to the photographer to take our souvenir portrait, I saw Sung and Stephanie and waved to them, getting friendly waves back. Adrienne also saw a few other Junior-class cheerleaders and they waved to each other. We even saw Drew Walker with one of the aforementioned Junior-class cheerleaders, and to my surprise, the basketball star looked my way and offered me a standard‘what’s-up’ head nod. I nodded back automatically, amazed at how much the world can change in only a month. And then I found myself scanning the crowd looking for Megan and Cassidy.
   I didn’t find them on my initial pass. And then with a little smile, Adrienne tugged on my arm to get my attention back on her. She gave me a look that said, ‘Hey, remember me? Your date?’
   I smiled and nodded to her and then leaned over to peck her cheek, causing Adrienne to smile happily. And then we saw Lynne Arian with her date and Adrienne hustled us over to Adrienne’s closest friend in attendance.
   The cute, petite brunette was with a handsome guy I didn’t recognize. She saw us and excused herself from her date for a moment, and then Lynne and Adrienne came together to share air kisses and compliment the other on how they looked. “You look beautiful tonight, Lynne!”
   “Right,” the brunette deadpanned. “I’m practically invisible next to you, Miss Too-Gorgeous-for-Words.”
   Adrienne giggled but I put in,“You really are beautiful, Lynne.”
   “Aww, thanks, Ben,” she replied, this time more sincerely.
   “So who’s the date?” Adrienne teased. “I’d have thought you’d talk Candy into letting you take Trevor for a night.”
   Lynne blushed.“You guys missed out a lot down in La Jolla. Being with Trevor was nice for a few nights, but he really belongs to Candy. And once I got it out of my system I gothim out of my system, too.”
   Adrienne nodded thoughtfully.“That’s good. That’s good. But you still haven’t told me who that hunk over there is.”
   “Ah, yes,” Lynne blushed. “He IS cute, isn’t he? Too bad he’s my cousin. My mom set us up when I couldn’t find a date.”
   “Sure you could have!” Adrienne frowned. “Or you could have told me and we would have found you a totally hot guy. Someone not-family you couldactually hook up with tonight.”
   Lynne just giggled.“You, girl, have sex on the brain all day, A.D.” Then the brunette glanced over to me. “Drink lots of fluids tonight, Ben.”
   “I will.”
   “C’mon,” Lynne offered and nodded her head back towards her date. “I’ll introduce you guys.”* * *
   Adrienne, Lynne, a few other Junior-class cheerleaders, and all us respective dates hung out in a big crowd together. I’d gotten rather used to hanging out with Adrienne’s clique and even though I could be friends again with my old crew, I still felt too weird about bringing Adrienne over to go hang out with them.
   On the other hand, I did spot the group and found that Cassidy’s date was Derek Rigby, the guy who’d been asking me about her last semester. He looked absolutely thrilled to be standing next to the cute redhead, and for a moment I felt happy for the guy. He’d been crushing on Cassidy for several months now.
   But to my further surprise and consternation, Megan was with Juan Cabrera, a prototypical tall, dark, and handsome Latin lover. He was a Senior and also had a bit of a reputation for bedding a variety of girls. And at the moment he was rubbing Megan’s naked shoulders and whispering in her ear as she giggled. I felt a flare of green jealousy shooting through me while the muscles in my arms tensed.
   As the minutes ticked by, I found myself peeking over to their group with some regularity, constantly monitoring what the suave and sexy hunk was doing to my ex-girlfriend. Adrienne glanced over at me a few times, noting my distraction but saying nothing as she was involved in some animated conversation with her girls. And when Juan moved off and headed for the drink tables, I saw my opportunity.
   I touched Adrienne’s elbow and said quickly, “Excuse me for a minute.” And then I strode quickly over to where Megan was waiting for Juan to return. In the meantime, Elaine had moved in and was initiating a new conversation just as I walked up.
   Both girls stiffened as I approached. Megan still had a world of hurt in her eyes as she looked at me, and then she just went quiet and stared at me, waiting for me to make the first move.
   “Hi, Megan,” I said a little awkwardly.
   “Hey,” she responded in a monotone. I realized then that we really hadn’t spoken to each other, even since my exile-status had been rescinded. Not a real conversation at least.
   “How are you doing?” I asked carefully.
   She sighed and tilted her head a bit to the side.“I’m okay. I’m okay. Life goes on.”
   Elaine was clutching Megan’s elbow by now and Megan turned to say to her friend, “It’s okay. Can you give me a minute with Ben?”
   Elaine looked to Megan for confirmation, and then after getting a reassuring nod, she glared at me and walked over to Daniel. I frowned as I realized that I’d been seeing Megan and Elaine together as a pair much more often lately instead of Megan and Cassidy.
   “So what’s up, Ben?” Megan turned and fixed me with a slightly-forced smile.
   I shrugged.“I just felt like I needed to talk to you.”
   “So talk.”
   “Please don’t be like this, Megan,” I said softly.
   “Like what? What do you want from me, Ben?” Megan exhaled and looked away. “We can’t go back to being friends the way we were. Too much has happened.”
   “I just… I just want to do whatever I can so that you don’t hate me anymore,” I said wearily.
   “I don’t hate you. I pity you. Cassidy and I would have done anything for you, Ben. Anything. We were in LOVE. And you fucked it up.”
   I winced and turned away. Just then, I caught sight of Juan by the drinks table, holding up two cups of punch and chatting with one of his friends. Nodding my head over that way, I asked quietly.“Are you and Juan, uh, dating?”
   Megan rolled her eyes.“No, of course not. I needed a date and Stephanie set us up. You and I have only been broken up a month, Ben.” She frowned. “I’m still… I’m still trying to get over it. And unlike you, I can’t just fall in love with the next pair of tits that goes by.”
   “I didn’t just fall in love with the next pair of tits.”
   Megan shrugged.“And yet you did.” She waved back towards Adrienne. “You got over me and Cassidy pretty quick.”
   “Megan…”
   She held up her hand.“Just save it, Ben. It’s okay.” The cute brunette sighed and shrugged. “I shouldn’t have gotten my expectations up. You’re just a guy.”
   Before I could really respond, Juan showed up with the two punch cups, handing one to his date. Megan immediately took a sip and gave me a look that clearly said our conversation was over.
   “Hey, Ben,” Juan offered casually.
   “Hey, Juan,” I nodded and then started backing away, feeling resigned. “You two have a good evening.”* * *
   “You okay?” Adrienne asked as I returned to the group.
   I took a deep breath and then nodded.“Yeah, I’m fine.” And then I smiled and squeezed Adrienne’s hand a little tighter. “How could I not be fine when I’m with you?”
   Her eyes sparkled and she flashed me rows of pearly white teeth.“Good answer.”
   And then Adrienne looked past me to where Megan was already getting into her conversation with Juan. Touching my shoulder, she said encouragingly,“Don’t take it personally. She’s just hurt and it’ll take time before you can be friends again. A girl just needs her space…”* * *
   We’d come to the dancing portion of the evening and I proceeded to prove I was at least moderately coordinated as I hopped around the floor with Adrienne. I didn’t know any formal steps or waltzes or anything, but I could keep my feet to the rhythm whether it was a fast or slow song.
   During the fast ones, we all danced in a group and Adrienne twirled amongst everyone, giggling and flirting almost constantly. As usual, she charmed all the guys and even some of the girls, and I saw quite a bit of her natural charisma that made her a shoo-in to be the next year’s Cheer Captain.
   During the slow songs, my girlfriend molded her body to mine and swayed with me, pushing the envelope of how close to miming sex she could get away with without adult chaperone interference. More than once, I had to remind myself to gaze into her eyes instead of ogling the firm breasts I felt being pressed into my chest.
   We also began trading partners. Lynne wasn’t a big fan of slow-dancing with her cousin, so I had several turns with her. I also was free to dance with some of the other girls as Adrienne was a popular dance partner and other guys were frequently asking me if they could cut in. The gorgeous blonde soaked up all the attention, but I was pleased to see that she never ground her crotch against them or pushed her tits into their chest, as much as the guys might have wanted her to.
   I also took a few breaks to sit down and rest. Fitting with her reputation, Adrienne could alsodance all day, but I needed a breather here and there. It was during one such break that I felt a tap on my shoulder and then a cute redhead popped into view.“Hiii, Ben,” Cassidy beamed at me.
   “Hey!” I said with happiness in my voice.
   “Can I steal you for a dance?” She asked with a twinkle in her green eyes, and the opening bars of a brand new pop/country ballad started up.
   “Sure, thing,” I beamed and took her hand as we moved out onto the dance floor. Quickly we assumed the standard high school position with her arms around my neck and my hands on her waist, and as we swayed Cassidy let her head tilt to the side as she looked up at me rapturously.
   “Mmm… I miss doing this with you, Ben,” she sighed.
   “We didn’t dance much, Freckles,” I chuckled.
   “Not just dancing. Just feeling your arms wrapped around me,” she hummed.
   “C’mon. I’ve seen you have a few slow dances with Derek tonight.”
   “Not that. It’s different from feeling YOU.” There was a hitch in her voice. “I still miss you, Ben.”
   I took a deep breath, not sure how to deal with that particular phrase. We were broken up and I was with someone new. It wouldn’t be right for me to dwell on the past right now. So I stayed silent and we just kept moving as the song launched into its chorus.
   “Hmm, I love this song,” Cassidy purred as she squeezed a little tighter, pulling our bodies an extra inch closer so that our torsos were just bumping into each other. And as I looked down, I saw her mouth moving as she began lip synching to the song.
   // Livin’ might mean takin’ chances, but they’re worth takin’ // Lovin’ might be a mistake, but it’s worth makin’ // Don’t let some hell bent heart leave you bitter // When you come close to sellin’ out reconsider // Give the heavens above more than just a passing glance // And when you get the choice to sit it out or dance // I hope you daaaaaance!
   As Cassidy hit that first line of the chorus, she put a little more force into her hips, pushing herself against me and causing us to sway in a big arc together, spinning us around in a way that made me gasp and Cassidy to giggle as we quickly slowed down again.
   I felt a rush of adrenaline pump through me as I was momentarily afraid we would fall, and my heart was racing as I we regained our balance. As for Cassidy, there was no mistaking the beaming smile on her face and as the song continued, she tugged herself even closer to me.
   And when Cassidy’s green eyes flickered up and she looked at me, all I could see was the girl I once loved, looking at me with an expression of such joy and happiness. I recognized the look in her eyes. She wanted to be kissed.
   Fractionally, I moved my head down towards hers. It just felt so natural to do so. We’d done it what felt like a million times. And as my head bent down, I saw her close her eyes and tilt her face up to meet me.
   But at the last moment, I remembered that I wasn’t dating Cassidy anymore. Shewasn’t my girlfriend. And in fact, my girlfriend might very well be watching me at this very instant. And just in time, I turned my head and Cassidy’s lips met my cheek.
   She pressed against it for a moment before jerking herself back, surprised that I’d turned away. Immediately, a hurt expression crossed her face.
   Biting my lip, I held her at arm’s length. “I’m sorry, Cassidy,” I began, deliberately using her full name. “I wanted to, but you know I shouldn’t.”
   Her eyebrows went up in a wistful expression, but she sighed and nodded.“Sorry. Maybe I shouldn’t have tempted you. But like I said, I miss you, Ben.”
   The song was winding down and I took a step back from Cassidy, glancing over to see if Adrienne had witnessed my near-miss at kissing another girl. But she was too occupied with the current boy fawning all over her and showering her with all his attention. I sighed in relief and then looked back to Cassidy with a smile.“I’ll see you at school?”
   She smiled and nodded her head in a half-bow.“Of course.” And then still with that serene smile, Cassidy turned and headed back to her own group.
   I stared after the cute redhead, musing on how it felt so natural to want to kiss her, but that I’d held myself back. Maybe I was starting to learn some self-control. In any case, I exhaled with relief that I hadn’t gotten caught and returned back to my girlfriend.* * *
   Dancing with Cassidy DID seem to break the ice between me and my old crew. Once they saw that even my ex-girlfriend was reconnecting with me, and that my new girlfriend wasn’t objecting, we began to intermingle.
   Abigail and Allison Sanders were the first to hop over and request dances with me. I also took a turn each with Stephanie Vo and Anh Le. And the new intermingling also prompted Kenny to ask for dances with some of the Junior cheerleaders.
   Of course, I didn’t go near Megan again, and Elaine still wanted nothing to do with me. But all in all, I enjoyed myself much more being able to interact with my old friends at such a big social event like Junior Prom.
   In the end, I didn’t dance that much with Adrienne. That was okay. She had a much more intimate (and horizontal) dance planned for us later on.* * *
   “Gawd, Ben! I NEED you right now!” Adrienne was clutching my arm and rubbing her hand in my crotch less than a minute after I pulled out of the parking lot, action that made me swerve in my lane.
   “Whoa! Whoa! Adrienne,” I half-yelled while jerking the steering wheel to get us back into line. “I’m driving! Your car!”
   She calmed down… sort of. “Then you’d better find somewhere quiet… NOW.” Her hand was back in my crotch, this time deftly unzipping my tuxedo pants.
   A minute later, my cock was in her mouth and I was groaning as I slowly took the next exit ramp at only 30 mph, causing the Benz behind me to flash his headlights and honk in annoyance. I didn’t care. I was getting a VERY enthusiastic blowjob from a gorgeous 16-year-old blonde and it took all my spare focus not to crash.
   They say your brain is smarter than you are. I’m not sure how I got there, but I wound up turning into a new housing construction project that was completely empty at this late hour on a Saturday night. The only paved roads that were complete were those leading to the sales office and model homes, and at the last second I skipped the turn towards the sales office and went around back behind some homes that were only half-built.
   The streetlights weren’t even installed yet and the moment I turned off the engine, the headlights went out and plunged us into the darkness. Adrienne picked her head out of my lap, looked around, and ordered, “Get out of the car.”
   She was already popping the door to her side by the time I managed to open my own door, not even bothering to zip myself up. Adrienne circled around and then climbed onto the Mustang’s hood, which had been warmed during the drive but wasn’t too hot.
   My intensely aroused girlfriend then squirmed and wriggled on top of the car, grabbing the hem of her own dress and yanking it upwards to her waist. And then I realized that she was without panties, and had likely been panty-less for the entire evening.
   The only illumination was the moonlight, which cast the lovely teenager in dark shadows and gave her skin an ethereal glow. And the pale light also reflected her eyes, which were wild and stormy as Adrienne leaned back and growled,“Eat me, Tiger.”
   “You’re certainly hot to trot tonight,” I grinned. “All the guys showering you with attention at Prom?”
   “You should’ve seen me after a football game,” she laughed. “All those men ogling me in my cheerleading outfit for more than three hours? Gawd dammit I got so horny! Now shut up andeat me!”
   I went to work.
   Adrienne coated my face with nectar twice within a few minutes. I got the distinct impression that she’d already been fingering herself while sucking me on the drive over. And after her second orgasm she picked her torso up and started shifting around, looking for the best position to get fucked.
   At first, Adrienne wanted me to climb onto the hood with her, but the waxed surface was a little too slippery and sloped and she wound up just sliding off and standing in front of the grill. And to my absolute delight, Adrienne then spread her legs, lifted the back of her dress over her naked ass, and bent over the hood invitingly.
   I knew what I was supposed to do.
   At 5’10” not including heels, Adrienne was the perfect height for my entry from behind. And she was certainly wet enough. So on the first lunge, I skewered her cunt on my cock and rammed her forward hard enough to make her chest thump against the hood.
   “Ohhh, FUCK, Ben!” she groaned.
   And then I slammed forward and bumped her into the hood again.
   And again.
   And again and again and again.
   Midway through our lusty fuck, I pulled down the straps of Adrienne’s dress and let her slip her arms out of the loops, which bunched up the satiny fabric together at her waist. The bra was next and then my hands went around to palm her heaving tits, squeezing them as I aggressively pounded my girlfriend from behind.
   In the darkness, most of the details of her naked back were washed out, leaving only her silhouette and the dusky gray moonlight rippling over her back in an ever changing array of shadows. This gave her perfect, peach-shaped ass the most amazing appearance, and it was such a thrill to watch my thick column of man flesh pushing in and out of her body.
   “That’s it! Fuck me, Ben! Harder! Pound me! FUCK! Fucking FUCK!” Adrienne cursed and moaned and flung her hips back at me even harder. I recognized her particular mood from the times Keira just bent herself over a couch and needed me to simply ravage her body without thought or care. And thatwas fine with me.
   When a girl got into a mood like this, it didn’t matter if I was trying to make her cum. Actually, it wasbetter when I wasn’t trying to make her cum, as if the concept of me just using her cunt as a masturbatory device turned her on. So it was with Adrienne while I pounded her over the hood of her own car, and soon enough she began wailing at the top of her lungs as her orgasm went crashing over her like a tsunami.
   “Fuuuuuuuuuuuuck!!!” she yelled before her breath gave out. And after a deep inhalation, she simply started screaming “Fuuuuuuuuuuck!!!” again.
   I powered my way into her clenching pussy all through Adrienne’s orgasm. And after she finished cumming, she collapsed against the hood and just lay there limply while I kept on pumping my cock in and out of her half-naked body.
   I was on such a power trip that I could have kept going forever. But Adrienne soon got her energy back as she began humping herself back at me, and then she reached back and grabbed her own buttcheeks, pulling them to the sides.“Fuck my ass, Ben. Finish in my ass. Fill up my bowels with your hot cum.”
   I didn’t respond verbally, just growling as I pulled out of her sodden pussy and aimed my soaked dickhead at her puckered anus. Adrienne exhaled and relaxed her sphincter as I began pressing forward, and with typical ease I pushed through that tight ring and started burrowing down my girlfriend’s teenaged anal chute.
   “Ungh,” she grunted when I hit rock bottom. And then Adrienne was rhythmically thrusting her ass back at me while I started in on my pumping motions. “Yes…” she crooned.
   After a minute, Adrienne just let her arms collapse onto the hood, pressing her chest against the warm metal while her lower body jiggled each time I reamed out her bunghole.“Fuck me, Ben. Fuck my ass. Cum in my ass, Ben. I’m going to go home and crawl into bed with your cum leaking out of my stretched asshole, Ben. Fuck me…”
   I had already started getting close while I drilled myself in and out of Adrienne’s rectum. But hearing those words got me even more turned on and I started thrusting faster, barreling towards my own release.
   Adrienne picked up on my renewed energy and she kept up her naughty chatter.“Mmm… fill me, Ben. I’m going to lie under the sheets while your cock cream drizzles out of my ass. I’m going to wipe it off my thighs and suck your cum into my mouth. And when there’s no more on my thighs I’m going to stick two fingers into my poor, little, abused asshole and scoop even more out. Fill me, Ben! Fill me! OHH! Cum in my ass, Ben! I’m cumming too! I’m cumming too! Cum in ME! AAAAHHHH!”
   Adrienne shrieked. I screamed. And with my pelvis compressing her asscheeks into her own body and my heavy weight crushing her tits even more forcefully against the hood of the car, my cock erupted in the depths of the gorgeous 16-year-old’s bowels where the moonlight would never shine.
   My throat felt sore from the power of that first yell. But when I took a breath, I felt another wad of cum exploding out of me into my girlfriend’s asshole and I started yelling again. Adrienne was screaming right along with me, our voices echoing off the bare walls and wooden frames of the unfinished homes around us.
   And then we were done. I could only imagine how we might look to an outsider. A 16-year-old blonde babe, completely naked save for a Prom dress squished into a wide band that was more belt than dress at this point. She was bent over the hood of a cherry red Mustang, her massive tits pressed to the hot metal while a young man, fully dressed in a tuxedo, had his cock embedded in her ass, his pants puddled around his ankles.
   The situation was out of a wet dream. And if this was how Junior Prom went, I could only imagine how crazy Senior Prom might be.* * *
   Junior Prom was most likely the high point of my relationship with Adrienne. That’s not to say it was all downhill from there, far from it. But while there were peaks ahead, intensity like Prom can’t last forever.
   The immediate drop-off in my relationship with Adrienne came with her period. Now the last time she had her period, my girlfriend had still been perfectly willing to give me blowjobs and she even got her own orgasms during anal sex. But this particular period was announced first by some really evil PMS and then later by wicked cramping.
   It started when I casually slipped my hand onto Adrienne’s ass as we were leaving school. She batted my hand away and barked at me, “Is that ALL you think about?”
   Immediately I was apologetic, but my girlfriend already started off on a PMS-induced tirade in which she complained that I was distracting her away from her studies and how her GPA had been dropping ever since she started dating me.
   I offered to help her study but she rolled her eyes and air quoted,“Translation: Ben want to fuck even more.”
   “No, I really mean ‘study’,” I insisted.
   But she wasn’t buying it and proceeded to verbally bite my head off. I quickly learned to just shut up and take it until she ran out of steam. And then Brooke, who had been hanging back, finally approached and asked if we were going home.
   I kissed my girlfriend on the cheek, drove home, and wound up doing a puzzle with Brooke after we finished our homework.
   I didn’t DARE to go over to Adrienne’s house.
   The next day, she apologized profusely, but didn’t invite me to her place. And by the end of the week, she was bitching about cramps and I didn’t dare to bring up even the concept of sex.
   And then came Friday.* * *
   I was in front of my locker in between periods when someone behind me said,“Hey, Ben,” in a sultry voice.
   I turned and saw a beautiful bottle-blonde with curly hair and tits that were not only on display in her scoop-neck halter, but were actually pushing upwards above the fabric of her top, forming two spherical mounds as if there were cantaloupes in her bra. Her dark eyes were nicely accented by heavy makeup, giving her the sensual, alluring quality of a porn star. I recognized her but had never personally talked to the girl. But I smiled at her sloping cleavage and replied,“Hey, Donna.”
   Donna Kincaid was one of the recognized sluts of the school. She wasn’t a cheerleader or a prissy snob or even a stoner. She just loved sex and everybody knew about it. Now I’d gotten around a bit in the last year, but everyone knew she’d gotten around even more. Her known “hit list” was pretty extensive.
   Personally, I knew Drew Walker and Adrienne’s ex Robbie Pederson were on her list of conquests. And as Donna slid up to me, I got the distinct impression that I was her next target. And since I hadn’t gotten laid since Monday, the idea wasn’t exactly repulsive to me.
   “How you doin’?” she asked me casually while fluttering her eyes at me and jutting out her hips. She also did this leaning thing which put her cleavage on further display without seeming to slouch or otherwise lower her height.
   “Uh, I’m good, I’m good,” I nodded agreeably while ogling what was being offered.
   “And how are things going with Adrienne?” she asked sweetly.
   My frown was instinctive, giving away my mood before I recovered and smiled.“Fine, just fine.”
   “That bad, huh?” Donna’s eyebrows went up as she sighed sympathetically. “Problems in paradise? The honeymoon phase over?”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Uh, I don’t think that’s any of your business, Donna.”
   She shrugged.“Couldn’t help but notice you’ve been dragging your feet the past couple of days, Ben.”
   “And why would you notice a guy like me dragging his feet, Donna?”
   Her smile turned from sympathetic to predatory.“Because a guy like you has quite the reputation around school, Ben. Word is you’ve rocked the world of more than your fair share of girls this year. Supposedly even little Lynne Arian raves about your beautiful cock. Can’t blame a girl for being curious.”
   Donna then took a step forward.“And word is there’s more than one girl just waiting for you to become available so they can find out if the rumors are true.”
   Holding Donna’s gaze steady, I asked, “And are you one of them?”
   Donna’s grin bared her teeth. “I’m not one to wait until you become available.”
   True enough. She’d stolen Robbie Pederson before he’d broken up with Adrienne and she’d banged Drew Walker several times while he was dating Cassidy. But I stayed firm in my love for my girlfriend. “I’m not cheating on Adrienne, Donna.”
   She shrugged, still smiling as she turned her profile to me.“Not like you haven’t done it before, Ben.”
   “Not on Adrienne,” I said gruffly, already getting turned off by the conversational direction. “Some people learn from past mistakes.”
   Sighing, the sexy blonde tilted her head.“Your loss. I won’t be around much longer,” she stated, referring to her impending graduation. But then Donna quickly stepped into me, pressing her chest into mine and putting her face right next to my ear. “But if the urge ever strikes you, Ben,” she husked while fondling my ass. “Callme… anytime.”
   I felt warm lips pressing to my cheek while I felt a piece of paper sliding into my back pocket. And then a gruff“Ahem” got both our attentions.
   Adrienne was standing not three feet away, arms crossed over her prodigious bosom. Her expression was NOT one of amusement.
   Donna quickly released her arms from around me and stepped back. She smiled sweetly at my girlfriend and in greeting, said,“Adrienne!”
   “Donna…” Adrienne growled threateningly. My girlfriend was still cramping and looked ready to take the older blonde’s head off.
   “See ya around, Ben,” Donna said in a sing-song voice, and then she skipped off, leaving me alone with one steaming girlfriend.
   “Nothing happened, Adrienne,” I said reassuringly.
   “Uh-huh,” my girlfriend grunted, clearly not believing me. Then she reached forward and scraped her fingers along my cheek, holding up the red stain of lipstick that now dotted her fingertips.
   I squirmed and started to explain but Adrienne just held up a hand to shush me.“Don’t want to hear it. Just get to class,” she barked.
   “Yes’m,” I bent my head and then scurried away.
   This week SUCKED.* * *
   I was heading for the parking lot after the last class of the week, cranky and eager to get home.
   “You okay, Ben?”
   I glanced to the side to see Cassidy fall into step beside me, pulling her headphones down around her neck and thumbing her CD player off.
   “Trouble in paradise?” the redhead asked.
   I frowned.“Why does everyone keep saying that?”
   She giggled and shook her head.“Sorry. You just look like you’re having girlfriend problems. You had the same look on your face whenever Megan got mad at you.”
   “It’s nothing. Really.” The last thing I wanted to do was explain how my girlfriend was PMSing and cramping and it was fucking up my sex life.
   “Okay, okay,” Cassidy help up her hands. “But you want some advice?”
   I looked hopefully at Cassidy. ANYTHING to stop the torture.“Sure.”
   “Just give her a little space,” Cassidy reasoned. “From what I’ve seen of Adrienne, she’s got some girl thing going on, like her body is not cooperating with her or something. Is she on her period?”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Yeah. You can tell?”
   “Happens to all of us,” Cassidy shrugged. “Nothing you can do. Another girl might be able to help keep her calm, but since guys don’t bleed, you’ll never understand. So just back off and wait. The cramps can’t last forever. And Adrienne loves you, Ben. She’ll come around.”
   “Do I have to?” I frowned. I didn’t WANT to wait. I wanted to get LAID, and I still felt the crinkle of that piece of paper in my back pocket, the one with Donna Kincaid’s phone number on it. But I wasn’t so desperate that I’d go looking to cheat.
   Cassidy just giggled at the look on my face.“What? Mr. Stud-muffin Ben has never gone this long without getting laid?”
   I rolled my eyes.
   She laughed some more and patted me on the back.“Suck it up, big boy. She’ll come around.”
   I sighed and nodded.“Thanks, Freckles.”
   “No problem.”
   Just then, Adrienne came walking up with Brooke in tow, Brooke’s acolytes Erin Roberts and Jennifer Vo following the pair. They were chatting comfortably, but Adrienne stiffened when she saw I was with Cassidy.
   “See ya later, Ben,” Cassidy touched my elbow and then walked away.
   Still in her foul mood, Adrienne walked up, leaned forward menacingly, and coldly glared at me.“What did SHE want?”
   “Whoa, whoa.” I held my hands up. “Cassidy’s my friend. And actually, she told me to just give you some space. That you love me and if I just let you get through this everything will be alright in the end.”
   “Oh,” Adrienne stood up straight, chagrined. “Okay. I’m sorry Ben. It’s the cramps. I’m not usually this twitchy.”
   I managed a weak smile.“It’s okay. I love you.”
   She smiled and leaned in to hug me.“Love ya too, Ben.”
   Giggling, Brooke jumped in a hugged me too.“Love you too, big bro!”
   I groaned in embarrassment. Seriously, how many teenage boys want their little sisters announcing‘I love you’ in front of the whole school?
   But Adrienne just laughed and let me go.“I’ll make it up to you, Ben,” she promised.* * *
   “You’re going down, Ben,” Kenny glared, turning his back to me with one shoulder threateningly aimed back at my face.
   I growled and crouched, readying myself for his attack. I hadn’t gotten laid in almost a week, not even blowjobs, and I had some extra aggression to burn off.
   It came without warning, Kenny spinning his body in the opposite direction while his left elbow came whistling past, forcing me to instinctively back away just enough to let him dribble by and give him a clear path into the lane. Daniel shouted a warning to Kaito, but it was too late. Kenny smirked, knowing he had beaten me…
   … but I wasn’t out of it yet. I grunted and darted after him, and just as Kenny rose up to toss in an easy layup, I leaped above him and swatted the ball, sending it flying away at a right angle to its intended path.
   “Boo-yah!” I crowed, pumping my fist while Kenny slumped and sighed.
   “Not bad!” a new voice called out from the direction of the ball. We all looked over to see Drew Walker and some of his Varsity B-ball teammates walking up, dressed to play in baggy shorts and sleeveless shirts. I glanced at Daniel and arched an eyebrow before returning my gaze to Drew, who wasdribbling our ball as he approached.
   There was an easy smile on Drew’s face and he gave me the usual bro’s head nod. “What’s up, Ben? You guys got room for a few more players? Our usual court is doing city maintenance or some crap.”
   I glanced around. We had six on this Saturday and had been playing 3-on-3 halfcourt. Sung looked surprised Drew was even talking to me. Daniel had his chin up confidently.
   “C’mon, we’ve got four, you got six,” Drew dribbled and pointed to us. “I’d say that’s tailor-made for 5-on-5, wouldn’t you?”
   I nodded,“You guys might be a little out of our league.” Daniel and Kenny were both under 5’8”. The shortest of them was 5’10” and I knew they all had ball skills.
   “No problem. We’ll split up. Whaddaya say? Games to 11 by ones and twos? Full court?” While Drew had all of his usual swagger, the sneer wasn’t on his face and the guy genuinely seemed like he wanted to ball with us.
   Daniel was grinning and I shrugged.“Let’s do it.”
   Drew Walker… playing basketball with me. I still remembered the day he’d body-checked me into the lockers. Life certainly had changed.
   Of course, my team was up point-8 when Drew elbowed me in the ribs, causing me to hit the asphalt rather painfully, and this time there was no one to stop him as he drove the lane and actually dunked the ball.
   He did come back to help me to my feet, grinning the whole while. I guess some guys are STILL rat bastards even when they’re trying to be friendly.* * *
   “Making some new friends now, are we?” Adrienne grinned as she slipped her hand into mine on Monday. Her mood had much improved since the previous week.
   I turned, smiled, and leaned forward so that we could give each other welcoming“hello” pecks. Then I arched my eyebrow as we started walking again, heading for the lunch line. “New friends?”
   “Drew. Word is you guys were playing basketball together Saturday,” Adrienne explained.
   I rubbed my sore ribs where he’d checked me. “Yeah. How’d you know?”
   Adrienne gave me a mysterious smile.“I see everything Ben. Didn’t you know that?”
   I feigned panicking and darted my head around as if I’d just gotten caught doing something naughty, to which Adrienne started giggling. And then she caught movement off to her left side and started grinning widely.
   I saw the change in her expression and arched an eyebrow at her.“What?”
   She giggled a bit more and said,“Well, uh, I’ve got a little surprise for you this afternoon. Think you can swing by my house after school?”
   I smiled and nodded. Adrienne was certainly still on her period, but there was a big tube of KY Jelly at her place with my name on it.
   Just as I started to fantasize about sodomizing my willing girlfriend, I felt a new hand sliding into mine from the left side and turned just in time to see Mizuho Nishioka beaming at me.“Hi, Ben,” she leered, obvious desire in her eyes.
   “Uh, hey Mizu,” I stammered before glancing back at Adrienne with an interrogatory expression on my face. But my girlfriend just grinned enigmatically at me.
   Mizuho just leaned in and husked right into my face,“Adrienne said you two were looking to add a little spice to your relationship.”
   “We were?” I asked in confusion. I hadn’t been aware of any such conversation.
   “So, how spicy do you want me this afternoon, Tiger?” Mizuho drawled, her mouth gaping open for an extra second as she panted in a way that made my heart flutter. Her use of Adrienne’s pet name for me was just icing on the cake.
   My eyes went wide as I looked to Adrienne for confirmation. She just smiled wickedly, and thoughts of threesomes started percolating in my brain.
   Did I mention I LOVED Mondays?* * *
   On Tuesday I was strutting down the hallway towards Adrienne’s locker. The previous afternoon had been incredible and I wanted to thank my girlfriend for a truly memorable three-way romp. I hadn’t been able to screw her pussy, but we’d found many (many) other ways of finding pleasure.
   Along the way, I passed Mizuho gabbing with a few of her friends and the perky Asian cheerleader took one look at me and grinned. Then she tilted her head towards me while muttering something, and then as one, four other girls rotated their heads to look at me with evaluative expressions on their faces. Mizuho topped it off by miming how much her buttcheeks hurt.
   But unfortunately, I didn’t find Adrienne by her locker or at her usual morning hang-out spot. Perhaps she was elsewhere on the campus or even looking for me. I shrugged. I’d meet her for lunch at the very least. And so I headed off for my first class, lest I be late.
   I turned the corner just in time to see Jake Harbor walking at an angle to me, and instinctively I shrunk back. He hadn’t bothered me at all since getting suspended a day for punching me, but I still preferred to avoid him whenever possible. I just felt awkward around the guy knowing I was banging his ex-girlfriend.
   But then to my surprise, I saw Adrienne bounce out of the nearest hallway, toss her hair, and sidle up next to Jake. She did her hip bump thing with him, which made the handsome football star grin at the gorgeous blonde and then the two happily chatted as they cruised along.
   My eyebrows furrowed and all the pleasant feelings I’d had for Adrienne disappeared in a green tidal wave. What thefuck was Adrienne doing giggling and flirting with Jake Harbor?
   Just then, the bell rang. Adrienne and Jake were heading down one corridor while I had to turn to get to my class. Steaming inside, I growled to myself and then turned.
   It was probably nothing, right?* * *
   I was a little surly during lunch. Everyone else at the table chatted happily, but I just shoved my food around. Adrienne made exactly two attempts to draw me into the conversation before giving up, choosing to be a social butterfly with her friends. After all, both of my responses had been gruff one-word answers.
   I was in a slightly better mood by the time the last bell rang. Adrienne had been at the very tail end of her period yesterday and by pure math, she should be in the clear by today. There were no cheerleader practices or afternoon games to attend, so I was looking forward to a little one-on-one time with my girlfriend. Yeah, we’d had the threesome with Mizuho yesterday, but I wanted a chance to be alone with Adrienne for a couple of hours.
   Unfortunately, when I met up with her at our usual meeting place, Adrienne begged off.“I’m sorry, Ben. But I’ve got this thing I’ve got to go to, okay? Tomorrow. We’ll hook up tomorrow.”
   I sighed.“Tomorrow there’s a game, remember?”
   “Oh yeah. Well maybe Thursday. C’mon Ben. I’ll make it up to you. And I KNOW you liked how I made it up to you yesterday,” she grinned.
   I felt a twinge of annoyance in my gut. But I also felt a stirring in my cock at mention of what she and Mizuho had done to me yesterday. I sighed and glanced over as Brooke approached us. Then I turned back to my girlfriend and hugged her.“Okay. Love you.”
   She squeezed me briefly before letting go and then striding away.“Love ya too, Tiger. Oh, hey Brooke.”
   “Hi, Adrienne!” my little sister beamed as the taller, older girl winked and continued away.
   I sighed and looked to Brooke, flipping my keys in my hands.“Let’s go.”* * *
   On Wednesday I found myself lying on my bed, feeling quite lonely.
   My gorgeous girlfriend was off cheerleading for the basketball team, soaking up the attention of hundreds of guys ogling her bouncing boobs in her tight uniform. She was an attention-whore, she’d get horny, and who knew what she was capable of? Maybe she’d end up having a quickie in the locker room with the game’s MVP?
   I sighed. I should have gone to the game.
   But I hadn’t. And even at home I was being ignored. Brooke was off with friends since I was actually home to “babysit” the twins, who were old enough to not really need supervision. But even Eden and Emma weren’t hanging out with me. They were holed up in their room working on some project together and barked at me to leave them alone when I asked if they wanted to play a game or something.
   And so I sagged against my pillows, staring at the ceiling, feeling quite sorry for myself.
   Then the phone rang.
   I was in a daze and it took me a couple rings before I grabbed the receiver.“Hello?”
   A very familiar voice sounded on the other end.“Ben?”
   It took me a second to recognize her. Hearing someone in person is always a little different from on the phone, and I’d only rarely ever heard her on the phone. But once it hit me my lethargy evaporated and I was seized by a sudden burst of joy. There could be no more perfect time for her to call. “Dawn!”
   I heard her smile.“Ben!” she cheered. “How are you?”
   “I’m great now,” I sighed happily. “What’s up?” Phone calls between us were quite unusual. We had our own lives apart from each other most of the year. We were always best friends at camp and off doing our own thing the rest of the time, and in the six years we’d been apart there had been maybe five phone calls in total.
   But then, in previous years, we hadn’t had sex together nor fallen in love.
   “I… uh…” Dawn faltered for a second. “I can’t explain it. I was doing my homework and for the past hour, I just couldn’t stop thinking of you.”
   “You were trying to stop?” I chuckled.
   “Ben…” Dawn groaned. “I’m serious. It was weird and I just felt like I had to call you. I can’t talk long. You know my mom and flipping out over these seven cents a minute calls.”
   “I know. But it’s still great to hear from you.”
   “You too, Ben,” Dawn said sweetly. “So how are you Ben? How’s that girlfriend of yours?”
   “Adrienne?”
   “Is that her name? You never told me back at camp. Your whole ‘no names, no identification’ thing.”
   “Oh!” I shook my head even though she couldn’t see it. “No. My girlfriend back then was someone else. We, uh, we broke up.” I frowned at the memory ofwhy Megan and I weren’t together anymore. “Adrienne’s my current girlfriend. She’s doing okay.”
   “Oh, I see.”
   “How about you? Mark, wasn’t it?”
   “Broke up too,” Dawn said glumly. “Long story. But otherwise, I’m doing pretty well!”
   “That’s great to hear,” I smiled. But then I fumbled for something else to say. I was never a phone person. Some people can spend hours on the phone just chatting about nothing to their friends. Brooke, for example. But I’m not one of them. In person, sure, I can talk for hours. But being on a phone when I can’t see them just feels so… impersonal.
   “So…” Dawn started. “You’re doing alright? School, all that?”
   “Yeah.”
   “Well, I don’t want to keep you from whatever,” Dawn said, sensing that I wasn’t 100 % into the conversation. She seemed a little sad by that. “I’ll let you go before this bill gets any higher.”
   “Dawn,” I interrupted. “I… I miss you, Dawn.”
   She went quiet for a second and sighed into the line. But when her voice came back it was infused with warmth and honey.“I miss you too, Ben. I can’t wait for the summer.”
   I pictured my Dawn, radiant smile and beautiful face as she reclined in an inner tube while floating on the lake. She was an angel.“Me neither. Thank you so much for calling. You don’t know what it means to me.”
   “Don’t sweat it. It was really nice to hear your voice,” she replied sweetly. “Bye, Ben.”
   “Bye, Dawn.”* * *
   Thursday afternoon Adrienne and I finally tumbled into her bed together. She popped my fly and knelt on the carpet, cramming my dick into the back of her throat in one swift motion.
   I hadn’t gotten laid since Monday, and I hadn’t been in Adrienne’s pussy for well more than a week.
   She made it up to me.* * *
   Saturday, I played b-ball with the guys, although this time Drew and his gang stayed at whatever court they usually played at.
   My afternoon was blissfully free of chores or house projects, and I called Adrienne’s new cell phone hoping we could get together for a little while. Maybe go for a drive somewhere since her dad was home being a couch potato.
   But she was out with her girlfriends, doing some shopping and other girly things. She blew me a kiss into the phone and promised we’d hook up on Monday. And then she was gone.
   I sighed and settled in around the house. Eden and Emma wanted me to teach them poker and blackjack with fake chips anyways.* * *
   Monday was a good day. I did love Mondays. Adrienne and I screwed each other silly and we even spent a good hour just chatting about our weekends. Still, I couldn’t help but notice how she would check the clock every now and again. She wasn’t obvious about it and my girlfriend genuinely enjoyed the conversation. But I couldn’t help shake the feeling that her focus on me just wasn’t as intense as it used to be.* * *
   Tuesday morning I went to find my girlfriend again. And for the second week in a row, I came down the hallway just in time to see her bump into Jake Harbor, flirt, hip-check him, and giggle as they walked off together.
   My ears burned and I felt green anger once again, but tamped down on it. Clearly, I was Adrienne’s boyfriend. We sat together at lunch, snuck kisses in the corridors, and she’d fucked me very well the previous afternoon, even taking one of my loads right in her face where it splattered into her hair and dripped down onto her glorious tits.
   She and Jake probably had the same first period. It made sense for the two of them to walk to class together. And I could dismiss the flirting. Adrienne flirted with EVERYBODY. And besides, class started in less than five minutes. It’s not like they had the time or privacy to do anything naughty.
   If I could hang out and chat with Cassidy without anything happening, surely Adrienne could hang out and chat with her ex-boyfriend.
   It was probably nothing… right?* * *
   “You up for an encore today, babe?”
   Adrienne giggled and removed my hand from her ass.“Settle down, Tiger. And sorry, I can’t.”
   I looked at her expectantly for further details, but none were forthcoming. I sighed and asked,“When?”
   “Boys! Is THAT all you think about?”
   “Yes,” I grinned. “With a body like yours, babe, how could I NOT?”
   Adrienne beamed and posed, emphasizing her assets. And then she threw her arms around me and planted a nuclear kiss on my lips. I felt my knees wobbling from her intensity.
   “There!” the gorgeous blonde exclaimed when she pulled off me. “That oughta hold you for another few days.”
   “Yeah, right,” I growled and pulled Adrienne’s pelvis against the erection bulging through my jeans. “You just made me want you even more.” My eyes were boring forcefully into her soul.
   Adrienne gasped and then smiled, defusing my passion with a ticklish peck to the nose.“Really, Ben. I gotta go. I’ll see you tomorrow!”
   And with that, my girlfriend spun and headed off. Not three feet away was Cassidy, holding her books and walking directly for us.
   “Oh, hey,” Adrienne greeted in surprise.
   “Hi, Adrienne,” Cassidy replied cordially, if not warmly.
   Adrienne paused to look back at me for a second, and then shrugging the hot blonde teen continued away, leaving me alone with my redhead ex-girlfriend.
   “Hi, Ben,” Cassidy’s voice now became warm. Her expression was focused in on me, letting me know this wasn’t just a casual greeting in passing.
   “Hi. What’s up?” I asked.
   The cute girl fidgeted for a minute before screwing up her face and deciding to just spit out her question.“Ben, I, uh, was wondering if you’re busy Saturday night?”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Are you asking me out?”
   “Well no, not exactly. That came out wrong,” she stammered. “See, my parents are dragging me to this wedding up in Malibu. Normally they’d just go themselves, but the bride is a cousin and they’re insisting I go because the groom is one of their important business partners. There’s really very few people my age and I’d be all alone and well, there’s this creepy coworker who’s always trying to touch me and I figured, well, if I have a date then he could help shield me away from the guy, and also keep all the other drunken letches from hitting on me and I immediately thought of you, Ben, because—”
   “Okay. I’ll do it.”
   Cassidy blinked three times rapidly, partially looking like she would just continue rambling on. But she got her bearings and stood up straight.“Really?”
   “Sure thing.” I smiled warmly. “You really thought of me?”
   “Yeah,” Cassidy smiled weakly. “Whenever I think of having a boy beside me, it’s always you.”
   I frowned and looked pained for a second. She still would have me beside her if I hadn’t gone and screwed it all up. And as she thought about it as well, Cassidy started to look saddened and on instinct, I moved forward and hugged her.
   Neither of us spoke for a good minute. But then Brooke arrived, took one look at us, and arched her eyebrow.
   Embarrassed, I jerked back and let go of Cassidy, who looked at me with surprise at my abrupt release and then whipped her head around in alarm. She looked rather relieved that it was just my sister.
   “So Saturday. What time?” I asked Cassidy.
   “Why don’t you come over at six? Full suit. You sure Adrienne won’t mind?”
   “Nah,” I waved. “She’s been pretty busy lately. It’s no big deal.”
   “Okay,” Cassidy beamed. “See you Saturday!”* * *
   My girlfriend actually took the news without concern.“Saturday?” Adrienne asked.
   “Yeah. We’re just friends and she needed a date.” And then I added for reassurance, “We’re not going solo or anything. Her parents are driving us up and back.”
   Adrienne actually smiled.“It’s kinda cool that you can still be friends with Cassidy even after everything that’s gone down.”
   “So it doesn’t bother you?”
   Adrienne shrugged.“Actually, it makes me feel less guilty for stealing you. Like I haven’ttotally ruined their lives.” And then the stunning blonde smiled beautifully and rubbed her tits into my chest while wrapping her arms around my neck. “Besides, I can’t worry as long as you’ve still got the hots for me.”
   “Oh, definitely,” I grinned. And then I leaned in to get one of my gorgeous girlfriend’s nuclear kisses.* * *
   Cassidy’s parents never knew she and I had been dating. In fact, I was pretty sure they thought their daughter was still a virgin. So when I arrived on Saturday evening to be her escort, I got the usual parent-boy grilling.
   It wasn’t too bad. Cassidy explained that we were just friends and she even said, “Relax Dad. Ben’s girlfriend Adrienne is like the hottest girl in school. He’s just coming to keep me company.”
   “Don’t say that, sweetie,” Mr. O’Leary said warmly. “Your mother and I knowyou’re the prettiest girl at that school.”
   Cassidy blushed easily, her fine white skin turning red at the drop of a hat. And she was quite pretty. Her makeup was just right, her coppery hair done up, and her dress was quite flattering, the strapless design allowing a wide expanse of creamy skin across her chest.
   Cassidy was quite beautiful this evening, even with the red blush. And she blushed even deeper when her mother reminded her to“leave the CD player at home.” And then we were off.
   The Malibu wedding was gorgeous. The multi-million dollar house was perched on a bluff overlooking the ocean. The backyard was decorated to the nines. And the bride was stunningly gorgeous, especially since she was in her mid-twenties and had enough silicone to re-float the Titanic. Her 50-year-old husband couldn’t be happier.
   True to form, one of the groomsmen was constantly trying to chat with Cassidy even though she made it quite clear she wanted nothing to do with the old letch. I spent half the evening just physically interposing myself between him and my date.
   But the rest of the time, us two teenagers just hung back and admired all the expensive decorations, making witty and sarcastic comments to ourselves about golddiggers, plastic surgery, and the recent development of Viagra making these kind of marriages possible.
   All in all, it was a nice evening. I hadn’t talked like that with Cassidy in forever and on the drive home, she fell asleep on my shoulder while I reflexively cradled her in my arm. It was a nostalgically wonderful feeling.
   When we arrived, the O’Leary’s made themselves scarce, although not without exchanging little winks at each other. I think they figured out Cassidy had girly feelings for me. And just before I left, while I was hugging my friend goodbye, Cassidy tilted her head to mine and planted a soft, tender kiss on my lips.
   It felt good. It felt really, reallygood.
   Cassidy had a unique flavor. All girls did. And kissing her brought back a rush of so many happy memories. The memories were often intertwined with Megan as well, which brought back even more nostalgia, and for a few minutes, I was transported back in time. Back when Cassidy was my girlfriend. Back before I’d screwed things up by cheating. Back when I was in love with two girls at the same time, and when both of them loved me back almost as much as they loved each other as best friends.
   When it was over, Cassidy blushed and looked down, softly apologizing,“Sorry…”
   I blinked a few times and kept on holding her in my arms. My tongue dragged across my lips where the cute redhead had been so intimately touching me just moments before. And for a moment, I was tempted to just drag her to my car, find a quiet spot, and make sweet and tender love to this beautiful young woman.
   But I didn’t. Instead, I replied softly, “It’s okay.” And then taking a deep breath, I looked my ex-girlfriend in her bright green eyes and smiled. “I’ll see you Monday.”
   “Okay,” she smiled back. “Bye, Ben.”
   “Bye, Freckles.”* * *
   I love Mondays. Have I mentioned that?
   Monday got off to a great start simply because I woke up and felt energized knowing it was a Monday. It was also April 30, which meant that May was up next, with June just around the corner. School would be over soon. I was feeling happy this day and I even got into Brooke’s hyper-chatter on the drive to school.
   Monday got even better when I got to school and met up with Adrienne. We hadn’t been together since a backseat romp on Friday night and my gorgeous, busty, nymphomaniacal girlfriend met me with a nuclear kiss.
   We had ten minutes before class started, and excusing ourselves from our friends, Adrienne pulled me apart from the crowd and then husked in my ear.“I need younow, Ben.”
   My eyebrows went up as my heartbeat accelerated.“What,now?” I hissed.
   “Now. C’mon, there shouldn’t be anyone in the Chem Lab.” She started tugging me along, her eyes bright gold.
   “The Chem Lab? Are you crazy?” I hissed again while my girlfriend dragged me along.
   “Crazy about you, Ben!” Adrienne giggled.
   I looked around at the throng of people surrounding us and as we turned a corner, I saw the door to the Chem Lab. There were a few dozen people milling around just outside of it. And since the doors only locked with a key, if the thing was open, we wouldn’t be able to lock ourselves inside. “Adrienne, we can’t! There’re too many people!” I protested.
   “Don’t worry!” she insisted.
   “All those kids are gonna see us go inside. You KNOW at least one of them is gonna open up the door and peek. Can’t you wait until this afternoon?”
   “No, I can’t,” she moaned. “I’ve got this thing this afternoon.”
   Disappointment was evident on my face. This was MONDAY. MY MONDAY. My eyebrows furrowed.“Where do you keep GOING these afternoons?” I asked in disbelief.
   She fidgeted.“It’s personal, okay? Just let it go. C’mon, let’s find somewhere else.”
   I sighed and looked at my watch. We’d already burned four minutes. “No time.” Not to mention my libido had taken a big hit and I wasn’t going to get hard fast enough to finish.
   Adrienne huffed and frowned.“Dammit.” She exhaled and then leaned forward to kiss me. “Okay, see you at lunch.”
   “Bye.”* * *
   Donna Kincaid arrived at my locker at the end of the day. With no nooky to look forward to, I was in a bad mood at the collapse of my Monday and I growled and looked away as the busty bottle-blonde moved herself into my personal space.“You haven’t called me, Ben,” she pouted.
   I sighed.“You knew I wouldn’t.”
   “C’mon, Ben. You have something better to do this afternoon?” She pursed her lips and pouted again. She wrapped her arms around her waist and lifted, elevating her cleavage while pushing her tits together for maximum effect.
   I rolled my eyes. I’d PLANNED on something better. But Adrienne was… busy… or whatever. I realized that I still had no idea what she was doing these random afternoons.
   “Looks like you don’t,” Donna caught onto my train of thought. “So why don’t you let me entertain you?” Her tongue trailed out and her jaw dropped, giving me just a teasing hint of what the hot blonde would look like with her mouth wrapped around my dick.
   I sighed and shook the image out of my head.“I told you, Donna. I’m not cheating.”
   “C’mon, Ben… It’s not cheating. I’m not trying to be your girlfriend or anything. It’s just sex.” Donna’s smile oozed sensuality and I had to admit, she used a perfect choice of words. I’d made the same rationalization to myself many times with Keira, Dawn, Dayna, and Brandi. It’s notreally cheating, is it?
   But then all ofthose girls were outside this school. Donna was a student here. Adrienne knew her. To sleep with Donna would be no different than me screwing Adrienne while I was dating Megan and Cassidy.
   “It would be cheating, Donna,” I insisted. “And I’m not gonna do it.”
   She shook her head.“Why not? What? You don’t think Adrienne’s stepping out on you? She’s been awfully chummy with Jake, don’t you think?”
   My eyes dropped to slits and Donna knew she’d hit a nerve.
   “Don’t take it personal.” Donna’s voice became syrupy honey. “She’s still your girlfriend. There’s a difference between love and sex, Ben. I’m only asking for the sex part. Really, Adrienne wouldn’t mind. It’s just the way we’ve always done things.”
   “It’s not the way Adrienne and I do things,” I growled. “I’m staying loyal. And so will she.” I pushed past the slutty blonde and stalked away.
   “Believe what you want, Ben,” Donna called after me. “Adrienne’s done it before and you can’t change a girl overnight.”* * *
   No way. I knew Adrienne loved me. I loved her. I’d learned from my mistake in cheating on Megan and Cassidy. I wouldn’t make the mistake again. And Adrienne HAD changed. She’d always dated jocks and bad boys before. She’d never gotten emotionally invested in them. But I was different. She really CARED about me. And she wouldn’t mess that up with any flings on the side.
   I had to find her. I had to talk to her just to reassure myself that we were as strong a couple as I believed. So instead of heading for the parking lot, I backtracked to Adrienne’s usual hangout spot with the other cheerleaders.
   Lo and behold, Elyse Laughton was the first person I saw as I came upon the cheerleaders. Steam was coming out of my ears as I rapid-marched amongst them and the gorgeous, raven-haired Senior looked at me appraisingly.“Can I help you?” she asked in a snooty voice.
   I ignored her and glanced to Candy, who was chatting with Summer and Mizuho.“Have you guys seen Adrienne?” I practically shouted.
   Candy’s jaw dropped at the tone of my voice and she nervously glanced at her friends. But before she could respond, Elyse glided in and smiled sweetly. “Why of course, she’s just over there.”
   Elyse pointed and I turned my head around to follow, and now it was my turn for my jaw to drop. Adrienne was giggling and standing in front of Jake while he milled around with some of his football buddies. And mid-laugh Adrienne patted the big guy on his chest, pausing to rub the hardened muscle beneath his shirt.
   “Awfully chummy with her ex-boyfriend, wouldn’t you say?” Elyse leaned in and husked into my ear.
   I felt my heart thud somewhere into the pit of my stomach. And without another word, I turned away and practically ran for the parking lot.* * *
   I locked myself in my bedroom, veritably steaming. Brooke had picked up on my mood and was silent for the drive home. Eden and Emma took one look at me and stayed clear. I couldn’t blame them. I was radiating ‘get the fuck away from me’ signals.
   I fought not to blink. Every time my eyes closed I started picturing what position Adrienne was in while Jake fucked her. MY girlfriend. With HIS hands on her glorious tits. FUCK!
   I was gripping a pillow, tensing my hands tighter and tighter as I wanted to rip the thing apart. And just as I was about to bite down on the offending piece of fluff, the phone rang.
   Glaring at the electronic device, I let it ring twice more before I snatched the receiver up and gruffly answered,“WHAT?”
   “Uh, Ben?” Cassidy’s burbled through nervously, no doubt taken aback by the vehemence in my voice.
   “Oh, Cassidy, sorry,” I sighed and grimaced.
   “Are you okay?” She asked with real concern.
   “No, not really,” I grumbled.
   “Oh, uh, okay.” She paused on the other end of the line, clearly gathering herself. “This can wait. I’ll talk to you later.”
   “No, no,” I interrupted and let out a long exhalation.
   “No really,” Cassidy insisted. “I don’t want to—”
   “Cassidy,” I growled, emphasizing her name. “What is it?”
   “Well, uh, uh…” She stalled. The normally bubbly and talkative girl was clearly hesitant, even though she’d initiated the call, and I started to feel my own concern for her melting through my annoyance with Adrienne.
   I sighed.“You okay, Freckles?”
   “Yeah, yeah, I’m fine. I was just wondering… I mean, I wanted to talk to you… And uh, there was something I wanted to show you.”
   “Today?”
   Cassidy was apologetic.“Like I said, it’s no big deal. It can wait. I’ll see you tomorrow at school.”
   “No, it’s okay,” I exhaled. Anything to take my mind off of Adrienne. “You want me to come over?”
   “Uh, uh… okay… Place is kind of a mess.”
   I chuckled.“You think I care? I’ll be right over.”
   “Okay. See you soon.” Cassidy sounded simultaneously pleased and freaked that I was coming over. Oh, well, I’d figure it out when I arrived.* * *
   “Hi, Ben.”
   “Hi, Freckles,” I said as I stepped into her house. Cassidy gave me a nervous smile and backed away, leading me into the living room. She was in her usual T-shirt and jeans, although I did notice the jiggle of her breasts to indicate that she was braless beneath the thin cotton.
   “You want something to drink?” she asked.
   “Uh, Sprite?” I said distractedly. My mind was still on my girlfriend and her ex-boyfriend.
   “Sure.” Cassidy disappeared.
   I flopped onto the couch and then let my head loll back until I was staring at the ceiling. It was nothing. Adrienne and Jake were nothing. She was just a flirt and he was a cute guy. Period. She’d even told me the guy was no good in bed and she’d specifically dumped him to date me. I had nothing to worry about…
   … so why couldn’t I stop thinking about it?
   I finally did stop thinking about it when Cassidy returned with two Sprites and a packet of photos. She handed me the drink and then shrugged, holding up the thick, oblong envelope.“This is, uh, what I wanted to show you. It really wasn’t any rush.”
   “Don’t worry about it,” I reassured her. “It was a good excuse to come hang out with you. I haven’t spent nearly as much time with you as I want to.”
   Cassidy visibly brightened at that.“Really?”
   “Really. You were one of my best friends, Freckles, before I went and fucked it all up,” I finished bitterly.
   She put her hand over mine.“Stop beating yourself up, Ben. I told you, I get it. I wasn’t happy with it, but I get it. Adrienne’s smokin’ hot.”
   I shrugged.“Maybe. But even now, I feel like I know you better.” I sighed and shook my head, trying to force images of Adrienne and Jake out of my brain. “Right now, I wish I’d never touched her. Then I wouldn’t be in this mess right now.”
   “Mess?” Cassidy asked.
   “Nothing. I’m sure it’s nothing,” I dismissed her with a wave.
   “If you say so,” Cassidy nodded and then managed to smile as she plopped down onto the couch beside me. And then with obvious enthusiasm, she opened up the envelope and handed me a stack of photos taken from the recent Malibu wedding.
   “Do you realize that was our first date, Ben?”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Uh, we went on a LOT of dates, Freckles.”
   “Not without Megan. And certainly nothing with suits and dresses. I was kind of looking forward to going to Prom with you, but then… well…” she trailed off and I grimaced, knowing I’d ruined that particular dream.
   “Speaking of which,” I piped up, trying to change the subject. “How are things with Derek Rigby?”
   Cassidy snorted.“Nah, not my type. No chemistry there.” The cute redhead giggled and then leaned into my shoulder. “Not like you and me.”
   I grinned as I felt the warmth of a young woman pressing her shoulder into mine, and then we looked at the photos. They were out of sequence, but Cassidy had certainly gone out of her way to collect pictures of just the two of us, whether solo or together. One shot was me in a Hercules pose with the ocean as a backdrop. One was the two of us sitting at the banquet table together. And another was Cassidy looking radiantly beautiful amongst a flower bed.“You were gorgeous on Saturday, Cass,” I murmured.
   The cute redhead turned and hit my shoulder.“What, I’m not pretty now?”
   I smiled and looked at her, my eyes obviously dropping up and down her body.“Well, you have to admit, the dress does show off your cleavage much better than this ratty T-shirt.”
   “Hey! This T-shirt is quite comfortable!”
   “If you say so,” I grinned. “You seem cold. Or am I wrong in that your nipples are showing?”
   Cassidy gasped and covered her tits with her hands, where her nipples were indeed poking out the fabric. And then she grinned and just dropped her hands.“What the hell. Like you haven’t seen way more than this already.”
   “True. But maybe you should take off the T-shirt just to refresh my memory,” I leered.
   Cassidy slapped my shoulder again. And presently I came to a photo of the two of us standing beneath the wedding archway, posing as if WE were the ones getting married.
   “Mmmm…” Cassidy swooned and sighed happily as she looked at the picture. It really was gorgeous, with the ocean backdrop and intricate flower arrangement along the white wooden latticework. In the photo, we made a cute couple, and we lingered on that picture for quite some time while Cassidy laid her head on my shoulder and just stared at it. I had no idea what she was thinking, but I knew the idea of being married to Cassidy was running through my head. And it wasn’t an unpleasant thought.
   Still with half her body pressed up against me, Cassidy then turned her face to mine. And as I stared into her bright green eyes, she dropped her eyelids shut and planted a soft, tender kiss on my lips.
   It felt good. It felt really, reallygood.
   I found myself returning the kiss, massaging her lips with my own until I pushed my tongue forward, piercing her mouth and adding it to our oral play. Cassidy moaned and wrapped her arms behind my head, pulling me tighter against her.
   And then I thought of Adrienne. I thought of my girlfriend. I thought of all my reminders to myself that I hadlearned from my mistake about cheating. I pulled away, leaving Cassidy panting and staring up at me. My eyes searched hers and then I asked softly,“Cassidy, what are we doing?”
   She smiled dreamily and replied,“Just acting on how we feel.” And then she pulled me to her for another kiss.
   That one continued on for a long minute. Our tongue battle got heavier and heavier until Cassidy just reached down and ripped her T-shirt over her head, baring her naked torso to me and showing off those nice tits I remembered so fondly. So maybe they weren’t E-cups like Adrienne’s, but they were plenty big and round on a 16-year-old’s slender frame. And my hands went to maul them while I once again attacked Cassidy’s mouth.
   But that only lasted another minute before I pulled away and winced.“I shouldn’t. It’s wrong.”
   Cassidy sighed and nodded, breathing heavily and trapping my hand against her naked breast with both of her hands.“Then we won’t go that far. I just want whatever you’ll give me Ben. I’ll take anything you have to give.” She rubbed my hand against her boob. And her eyes shone as she looked at me intensely, burning with an emerald fire.
   And then I thought of Jake. I pictured him kneeling behind a naked Adrienne, staring at that perfect ass while he drilled his cock into my girlfriend from behind. I pictured his hands grasping her big, heavy tits as he pounded her. And I KNEW he was doing it to her RIGHT NOW.
   It was Monday. It was MY Monday. It was MY time to be with Adrienne. But no! She said she had this“thing” to do. A “thing” she wouldn’t tell me about. And she was flirting with Jake and touching his chest after school. Did she want to spend that time saying goodbye to me? Her boyfriend? No! She wanted to have her extra fucktoy on the side!
   So why not me?
   It was poetic. Adrienne was fucking her ex-boyfriend. Why shouldn’t I fuck my ex-girlfriend? Fair was fair. And after all, didn’t she seduce me into cheating on Cassidy in the first place? Cassidy DESERVED payback.
   And besides. I WANTED to fuck Cassidy. So I asked,“Whatever I want to give you?”
   The redhead nodded sincerely, her face just inches away from mine.
   “I want to fuck you, Freckles,” I growled and leaned in.
   “Oh, gawd yes!” she gasped as her eyes went wide. Her lips trembled and then I was already ripping my own shirt over my head and attacking her face with my hands and my mouth.
   “Ben!” Cassidy moaned in between lip-locks. “Ohhh. It’s been so long!” Really, it had only been about a month and a half. But to a 16-year-old in love, that could be an eternity. She seemed energized by my willingness to be with her, and the cute redheaded teen suddenly became rather frantic in her desire to remove all our clothing and simultaneously get to the fucking as fast as possible.
   But I wanted to do this in bed, inher bed. It was a place of fond memories, a place of many sexual encounters for us, both with and without Megan. Cassidy was still wearing her jeans, unbuttoned, when I scooped her into my arms and physically hoisted her up as I made a mad dash for her bedroom.
   I knocked the wind out of Cassidy when I tossed her onto the bed. She was still gasping for breath when the giggles started as I yanked down her jeans and panties, revealing that natural red trimmed bush that hovered over a moist, pink pussy. Cassidy was scrabbling her arms out to me, begging me to mount her, but I couldn’t resist kneeling beside the bed and diving my face in to taste my ex-girlfriend’s sweet honey.
   She was just like I remembered.
   Her hips bucked up into my face the same way too. And running half on instinct and half on memory of what she liked, I proceeded to tongue-lash and finger-bang the cute teenage girl right up to an explosive orgasm.
   “Oh, Ben! Ben! I’m cumming! Ben’s making me cum! Aaaahhhh!”
   I rode out her bucking hips without snapping my neck. And after her stomach spasms seemed to die down, I pried her thighs off of my ears and sat up to wipe my mouth with the back of my hand, grinning proudly at my handiwork.“Guess I still remember how to do that to you.”
   The dazed redhead couldn’t focus her eyes on me, but she managed to reply, “You’ve gotten even better.”
   “I think you just missed me.”
   “You got that fucking right, mister.” And finally Cassidy was able to focus her green gaze. Lasering her eyes right at me, she ordered, “Now get up here and fuck me.”
   “You still on the pill?” I asked with some concern as I undressed the rest of the way. Then I slid up onto the bed and moved her legs apart.
   Cassidy pulled them even farther back, lewdly exposing her pussy. And then she replied.“Of course. I knew I’d have to fuck you again one day, Ben. I love you. Still love you.”
   I smiled and felt an upwelling of warmth in my heart. She still loved me.“And I still love you,” I grinned. I’d known it was possible to have feelings for more than one girl. After all, I’d done it with Megan and Cassidy. And even when I broke their hearts, I never stopped how I felt about my ex-girlfriends.
   Cassidy beamed and beckoned to me with open arms.“Make love to me, Ben.”
   I smiled and got into a push-up position over my prone ex-girlfriend. And as my cockhead found her vaginal lips and began to slide down, I dipped my head and kissed Cassidy at the same time.
   My intention was to press my tongue into her mouth at the same time I hit bottom. But DAMN. I forgot she was this TIGHT. And in the end, we were french kissing long before our pubes met, the way having to be forced through repeated thrusts and withdrawals, gaining an extra inch of depth each time.
   After five such pumps, I finally brought my pelvic bone up to Cassidy’s, and together we found our old rhythms of love.
   “Ohhh… More Ben… Gimme more…”
   “So tight, Freckles! I’m fucking you… Oh, so tight, baby. So good!”
   “You like my tight pussy? You like that? Am I tight enough? Wanna keep thrusting into me?”
   “Ungh!” I grunted and nearly came. Her vaginal walls squeezed down around me as if they had a mind of their own, coaxing my load out. But I didn’t want to give it up just yet.
   “More Ben!” Cassidy encouraged while she stroked my naked back. “Gimme more and cum in me. Let me feel you shooting inside me. I missed it so much, Ben. Fill me with your scalding jizz.”
   “Oh, Freckles!” I groaned with obvious arousal at her words. And my groan energized her even more as she wrapped her legs behind my ass and started tugging me even deeper into her.
   “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck! Fuck me! I’m cumming, Ben! Cum in me! Cum in ME!”
   “Aaaarggh!” I roared as I felt my balls coiling, and instinct took over completely as I rammed my thick cock through Cassidy’s tight tunnel repeatedly, hammering her smaller body with no mercy as I started off down the final path to orgasm.
   And then I was there. My entire body tensed and then held, just for a split second. And then I burst, exploding outwards in a riot of passion and pleasure as I volleyed out several globs of cum deep into the very depths of Cassidy’s womb, my sperm jetting out to begin their futile search for an egg that wasn’t there.
   But my sperm didn’t care. I didn’t care. And Cassidy certainly didn’t care as she simply writhed and screamed and howled in my ear, thrilled to feel my cum jetting into her welcoming body. I hunched twice more, grunting and heaving as my prick spat out a few more globs of creamy spunk.
   When we were done, I rolled off of Cassidy, amazed at the intensity of my orgasm. And together, we lay there panting at the ceiling and gradually cooling down from our orgasmic highs.
   “You’re incredible, Ben,” Cassidy sighed. “The orgasms you give me are so fucking incredible.”
   “Thanks,” I sighed. “You’re pretty damn good yourself.”
   She giggled and rolled onto her side, propping her head up on one elbow.“You still have until 6:30?” she asked, referring to my usual “curfew” for dinner time.
   “Yeah.”
   “Good,” Cassidy grinned and leaned over to lick our mingled fluids off my semi-hard cock. I already felt some fresh hardening at her soft touch, and as the cute redhead bent further down to swallow three inches into her mouth, I set my hand on her head and let myself float away on a cloud of bliss.
   Chapter 15: Cheater
   The guilt hit me well before I got back to my house.
   I’d only felt this kind of guilt once before: thelast time I’d cheated. And I was under no illusions that what I’d done was anything but cheating. Adrienne was my girlfriend. Cassidy was not. Having sex with Cassidy was cheating. Period.
   It didn’t matter that I was pretty damn sure Adrienne was cheating on me. The sudden afternoon absences. The constant flirting with Jake. And besides, it was her nature. You can’t tame a wild animal, not overnight. A month and a half ago, Adrienne was perfectly content to cheat on her boyfriend with me. Candy and Trevor boinked other people all the time. What was it Donna had said? It wasn’t about love, just sex. It was a way they’d always done things.
   But it wasn’t the way I knew I should be doing things. I’d spent enough time being the nice guy who listened to my female friends to know that as much as they hated guys blabbing about their conquests, they REALLY hated their guys cheating on them.
   And I was falling for Adrienne. We had the most intense physical and emotional relationship I’d ever known! Our passion for each other scaled the greatest heights and filled me with a burning flame of desire bigger and brighter than anything I’d ever felt before. Yeah, I’d still had a lingering fondness for Cassidy. But Adrienne was my girlfriend and I owed it to her to do everythingI could for our relationship.
   I’d fix this… if I could. But right now, I had to face that I’d cheated. I was lower than pond scum.
   When I got home, I couldn’t even look Brooke in the eye. She took one sniff of me and then gave me a knowing grin as I raced past her and headed up the stairs. If only she knew WHO I’d just been with.
   I was going to hell.MAY 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   The guilt didn’t leave me alone when I’d cheated on Megan and Cassidy. The guilt wouldn’t leave me alone now, either. You might ask, if the guilt bothered me so much, why the hell did I do it in the first place?
   I don’t know. I’m just a stupid 17-year-old boy.
   So I had to come clean with Adrienne. Hey, maybe she wouldn’t care. Maybe she’d just wave me away with a dismissive, ‘Oh, I figured you’d been banging Cassidy for months from the way you two always hang out together. It’s no big deal.’ After all, it was just the way her crowd did things, right?
   Of course, even if she did accept my pussy on the side, could I handle her shagging Jake on the side?
   Well, from the way my teeth ground together at the mere thought, probably not.
   I didn’t have a plan. I had no idea what I was going to say. But I needed to talk to my girlfriend before I drove myself insane. So the first thing I did upon arrival at school was go looking for Adrienne.
   She wasn’t in her usual spot. My teeth started grinding again. If I found her bumping her hip into Jake on the way to their next class, I was gonna rip his heart out, whether or not the guy outweighed me by forty pounds.
   Looking around frantically, I was just about to take off when someone called from behind me,“Ben!” And I spun around at the familiar, feminine voice.
   Candy Carter stood before me, tilting her head to the side as she fixed me with her sparkling blue eyes.“You looking for Adrienne?”
   I nodded quickly.
   “She’s home sick today. You should give her a call later; make sure she’s doing okay.”
   My jaw dropped. I had been cycling my brain through so many different scenarios for the way our conversation would play out, and the idea that she wouldn’t be at school never even occurred to me. “Uh, okay… thanks, Candy.”
   The cheery brunette smiled.“No problem. See ya around, Ben.”
   Now what?* * *
   Even absent Adrienne, I still ate lunch with my new crowd. With my girlfriend currently out of the way, Mizuho flirted with me incessantly and dropped more than one hint that she wouldn’t mind if I paid her a visit without Adrienne. I wasn’t sure if I should take the cute Asian chick seriously or just chalk it up to flirting. In this world of casual sex and acceptable cheating, Mizuho might very well be serious in her innuendoes.
   Candy and Summer dragged me into some idle school gossip. Trevor and Jae moaned with me about girls and shopping. And Lynne sat next to me, chatting about our Chemistry homework. Amongst the cheerleaders, Lynne was probably the closest in temperament and personality to my old crew, not to mention that we were among the few Juniors at the table. And the two of us had started to get really comfortable around each other as friends.
   Actually, I was starting to get comfortable with all of them. Despite their status as some of the elite on campus, they’d accepted me in and made me feel like one of them. But a sudden fear gnawed at me from the inside. If Adrienne dumped me for cheating,then where the hell would I eat lunch?* * *
   I didn’t run into Cassidy until after the last period. Well, I didn’t just run into her. I actively went and sought her out, making a beeline for her locker after the final bell instead of stopping by my own locker first.
   She’d had such a glow about her while we made love over and over yesterday afternoon. It was a look of fulfilled happiness, as if reuniting with me was a dream come true. I’d been frazzled enough over the past few hours that the mere idea of basking in Cassidy’s loving warmth for a little while was as appealing as the idea of slipping into a steaming hot tub after a sore day of aching muscles.
   Which was why I was so surprised when Cassidy greeted me with an unpleasant, hissing,“Ben! What are you doing here?”
   “I, uh, wanted to see you, Freckles,” I managed to stammer out.
   She took a deep breath and glanced around for a second, no doubt searching to find if any of our friends were in the immediate vicinity.“Did you break up with her?”
   My eyebrows furrowed.“Well, uh…” I stalled.
   “Look, Ben,” Cassidy stepped forward until her face was just inches from mine. “I loved yesterday. I wasn’t expecting it, but I was thrilled that it happened. You make my insides all mushy and the orgasms you give me are incredible! But I can’t do this. I can’t be the ‘other woman’.I feel… dirty… just standing next to you right now, okay?”
   “Cassidy…” I pleaded with my eyes.
   “No, Ben. I’m not having sex with you again.”
   I frowned.“I didn’t come over here to ask for sex.”
   “Then why did you come over?” She shook her head with an annoyed expression on her face.
   “Because you’re my friend! And I miss talking to you.”
   Cassidy pouted.“If we talk or spend more than three minutes together, I’m going to want to kiss you, Ben. And if I kiss you then I’m going to want to fuck you. And we can’t do that. You’re taken.” Cassidy’s green eyes were dull. “And I made you cheat… again…”
   I winced, realizing how much my cheating had hurt my girlfriends before. In a forlorn voice, I began,“Freckles…”
   Cassidy started turning away.“Look. Figure things out with your girlfriend. Then… then… I don’t know… But you’ve got to work this out with Adrienne first.” And then my cute ex-girlfriend hurried off.* * *
   Brooke was waiting for me at our rendezvous point after school. She was holding hands with Perry Anderson, smiling and giggling and exchanging cute-looking pecks. There was no tongue, just little baby kisses. I sighed and thought about what life used to be like as a freshman, before sex made everything so damn complicated.
   I thought of what it must be like to be Perry right now, with just one steady girlfriend who wasn’t ready for full intercourse yet. He probably went home and jerked off to thoughts of seeing his girlfriend naked, and all he had to worry about on a date was how far she’d let him go. Would she maybe let him touch her breasts? Outside the shirt or in?
   Sure, I’d had some of the most wild and crazy sex possible. But at least if I were in Perry’s situation, my head wouldn’t hurt this much.* * *
   That afternoon, I sat on my bed, tossing the telephone receiver back and forth between my hands. I wanted to call Adrienne, to make sure she was okay. But what would I say? Would it just be a friendly boyfriend check-up? Would I confess all my sins?
   The more I tried to organize my thoughts, the more cluttered my mind became. Searching for a way out, my thoughts turned to my best friend in the world, Dawn Evans. She was a girl. Maybe she could help me figure this all out? I punched in the area code and the first four digits of her phone number before I winced and hung up the handset. What would I say to HER? Organize, organize!
   I couldn’t think. My thoughts were still too jumbled. I picked up the phone in another attempt to call… SOMEONE. Adrienne? Dawn? Maybe even Megan? My brain cluttered and cluttered until the big mess was just too overwhelming and I slammed the handset back into the telephone cradle and just stood up.
   I was on the sidewalk heading for Adrienne’s house before I even realized it. And along the way, the clutter came back and I started panicking once again. I wasn’t ready to go to Adrienne’s house. I still didn’t know what I was going to say. The last time I just blurted out that I’d cheated, I’d gone home with bruises on my face and on my arms from where Megan and Cassidy had tried to beat me to death. I wasn’t looking forward to a repeat.
   What the hell should I do?
   The answer came two steps later. I’d reached the walkway up to Keira McNeil’s house. And on impulse, I turned and went to the doorbell, ringing it twice.
   Keira answered a few moments later.“Ben!” She exclaimed in surprise and opened her arms to me. She was wearing a casual blouse and slacks, comfortable work clothes.
   I gave her a chaste hug and she invited me inside. I made no moves to initiate any kind of physical contact. She’d made clear the last few times we met that she wanted to remain platonic friends while she hunted for Mr. Right. And when I sat on the couch, she took a wing chair opposite me and leaned forward. “So what brings you here, Ben?”
   I grimaced and before I could say anything, Keira chuckled and said,“Lemme guess: girl troubles?”
   I winced.“How’d you know?”
   “You’re seventeen, Ben. What else could it be?”
   I sighed.“I’ve been… I’ve been bad. I’ve done some things I’m not proud of.”
   Both Keira’s eyebrows went up as she looked at me intently. Her sharp green eyes narrowed, she canted her head, and then asked, “You cheat on Adrienne?”
   I winced.
   “I’ll take that as a yes.” Keira sighed and searched my eyes. I’m not sure how she did it, but she could read me like a book. “This wasn’t even the first time you’d cheated on someone.” It was a statement, not a question.
   I nodded. Back in the day, I’d told Keira everything about my love life. She was my confidant and I knew my secrets were safe with her. She knew about Megan and Cassidy and Dawn and Dayna and even Brandi. But after the whole Adrienne incident, I’d sort of lost that close contact with my first lover. Adrienne had used the threat of exposing Keira as one tool in seducing me, and I couldn’t bear to reveal to Keira just how close she’d come to getting thrown in jail.
   But I now told Keira everything else. She knew I’d broken up with my two girlfriends and started dating Adrienne, but she hadn’t known the details. I explained about Adrienne seducing me and leading to my admission of cheating to my girlfriends. I explained about getting dumped and Megan and Cassidy’s vastly different reactions. And I explained about dating Adrienne and even told her about the Spring Break and the drugs and organized orgy with Mizuho and Candy and the rest. And then I told her about my suspicions regarding Jake and how I’d slept with Cassidy on Monday.
   When I was done, Keira was wide-eyed as she leaned back in her chair.“Wow… I’ve created a monster.”
   “Monster?” My eyebrow arched up.
   Keira laughed.“You certainly get around Ben. A lot more than I remember anyone doing when they were your age. Still, I’m glad to know the things I taught you are getting put to good use.”
   I moaned forlornly,“But what do I do now?”
   Keira took a deep breath and looked at me with soft green eyes. She shook her head slowly and then tilted her head to the side. And in a quiet voice, she said,“Maybe you should step back from the whole dating scene for a while, Ben. This web of relationships you’ve got yourself tangled in is clearly too complicated, and I think you could use some time to collect yourself and figure out what you really want, and not just be led around by your dick.”
   “Step back? What, you mean like break up with Adrienne?”
   She nodded.
   “I can’t do that. I love her,” I protested.
   “Ben, you’re barely seventeen. You don’t know what love is,” Keira said gently.
   “Of course I do!” I vehemently insisted.
   She sighed.“Okay, to how many girls have you said the phrase ‘I love you’?”
   My jaw waggled but I immediately started counting: Keira, Megan, Dawn, Brandi, Cassidy, Adrienne. I think that was it. But I felt guilty about the number.“Well, uh…” I stalled.
   “Is it over two?”
   I gave her an‘of course’ look. She already knew with certainty that I’d said the phrase to her as well as to Adrienne. She could guess that Megan and Cassidy, being girlfriends, had also been told they were loved.
   “Over five?” Keira asked with raised eyebrows.
   Now I bit my lip and blushed with embarrassment. Keira just sighed.“Ben, it’s been what, a year? Do you really think you were in love with more than five girls in that much time?”
   “Sure.” I shrugged.
   “That’s not love, Ben. That’s lust. At best, it’s infatuation. I KNOW. I’ve felt it, too. I even thought I was in love with you, Ben. I wasn’t. I LOVED what we were doing. I LOVED feeling like I was in love. I LOVED feeling like I had someone beside me. But it wasn’t love, Ben.”
   I stood up, feeling hurt that my love was being challenged. I KNEW what I felt inside. I knew how being around those girls warmed my heart. I knew I was right.“I loved you, Keira. Still do, in a way.”
   She softened and gave me a wan smile.“You’re sweet, Ben. But that’s just my point. I tried to tell you before, but I guess this just reminds me why I shouldn’t be dating a teenager.” Keira stood up with me and touched my cheek. “You’ll learn about real love, Ben. Someday, you’ll understand.”
   Feeling like I was being condescended to, I frowned and turned away. I’d show her. I’d go and work things out with Adrienne. I’d prove to Keira that I understood real love. And Adrienne and I would last forever.* * *
   My confidence that Adrienne and I would last forever began to wane the moment I left Keira’s front door. And with every step forward I took across the street to Adrienne’s house, I felt a little more of that confidence melting away. Would she forgive me? Would she not care? Would I be able to cope with her and Jake screwing around?
   There was no answer when I rang the doorbell. Frowning, I went to ring the bell again but noticed that the front door was just barely off its doorjamb. Pinching my eyebrows together, I hesitantly reached out with my fingers and gently pushed, and the door swung open.
   Cautiously, I pushed the door before me as I stepped into the house, listening for the sounds of any human activity. There was none, and I called out in a hesitant voice,“Adrienne?”
   There was no immediate response, and I closed the door behind me. Then once more I called,“Adrienne?” Still no response.
   The notion that I was in Adrienne’s house without being invited inside made me nervous, and I walked slowly and softly, trying not to make any noise. This was WEIRD.
   Quietly, I headed for Adrienne’s bedroom. And as I turned down the hallway, I heard a low female moan float through the door of her bedroom. I recognized the moan. It was Adrienne’s moan.
   Still silent, I padded forward and heard the muffled thump of something banging against wood, and then Adrienne moaned again. I felt the hairs on the back of my neck go up as my mind started racing for conclusions. Was she? Right now?
   I squeezed my eyes shut as if it would help ward away the evil thoughts creeping into my brain. First, there were Adrienne’s mysterious absences the past couple of weeks. Then there was her constant flirting with Jake. I’d only seen them maybe three times, but I KNEW there was even more flirting while I wasn’t around. And after claiming she had other plans on MY Monday afternoon, she’d completely skipped goingto school today. Was it because Jake had fucked her brains out and she couldn’t show her face to me the next day? Was it because Jake was STILL in her bedroom fucking her brains out even right now?
   Motherfucker! Adrienne was fucking cheating on me RIGHT NOW! She was in there, getting screwed and bumping up against the headboard! And with a grimace of rage, I stomped down the last few feet to her bedroom, twisted the knob, and flung the offending door out of my way.
   Wincing, Adrienne sat up straighter in bed, her skin pale and clammy, her hair a tangled mess. She squinted at me for a second and then asked in a weak voice,“Ben?”
   I blinked several times, my head twisting left and right, looking for a phantom Jake Harbor who wasn’t there. And then the idea that I was completely wrong about everything started to enter my head.
   Adrienne moaned and leaned back against the stack of pillows propping her up. She grimaced and asked,“What are youdoing here?”
   “I, uh…” I stammered. “I wanted to check on you and see if you were okay.”
   Pouting, Adrienne winced in pain as she sat up straighter.“I thought you’d call. I told Candy to have you call me. I didn’t want you to see me like this.” She sighed. “And how’d you get in here anyways?”
   “Uh…” I jerked my thumb back out the open doorway. “The front door was open. I rang the doorbell but no one answered. And then I was calling your name and didn’t hear anything.”
   Adrienne frowned.“I was asleep.” She clearly looked uncomfortable and exhausted. There was a bottle of prescription painkillers on the nightstand beside her and her abnormally pale skin made me worry.
   “Adrienne, what’s going on?” I asked with concern.
   She exhaled.“I didn’t want you to see me like this.”
   Fear flashed through me. Was my girlfriend going to die? I asked fearfully,“Is it serious?”
   “No, no, it’s not that bad. It’s just… well… a little personal. And I didn’t want you to freak out.”
   I started to freak out, my face twisting in anxiety. I was still flushed from my brief raging anger and had yet to calm down. And being kept in the dark further wouldn’t help matters.
   Adrienne sighed and then shrugged as if to say‘what the hell’. She took a deep breath and then said, “I had uterine fibroids, Ben. Doesn’t usually happen to girls my age but it does happen. It’s not cancerous or anything, but it was making my period REALLY bad and giving me a lot of pain. The pain came and went, so we could still have sex. But some days I was just miserable.”
   I started to get horrified that I’d completely misjudged the situation. And a second later, Adrienne confirmed it.
   “So a couple of weeks ago, I went to the doctor to get it checked out. I had a follow-up last Tuesday. And they were able to schedule me in for surgery yesterday afternoon. That’s why I haven’t been able to meet up with you in the afternoons, Ben. And I’m on bedrest now for a few days whileI heal up from the surgery. Sorry boyfriend, I’m kind of out of commission for a little bit.”
   “So why didn’t you just tell me?”
   Adrienne squirmed.“Because… It’s really personal. I mean… there was stuff wrong with myuterus, Ben. I don’t just go around announcing that to everyone I know. And you’ve only been my boyfriend for less than two months. I didn’t want to make you feel weird about having sex with me.”
   She sighed and rolled her head around her neck, stretching it out.“If you had just called me instead of coming over, I could have just explained that I was sick and then come back on Thursday or Friday and we’d be all back to normal. You would never have had to know.”
   Right then, I made what may very well be the dumbest mistake of my life. I could have just expressed sympathy and gone on like nothing ever happened. But no, I opened my big mouth and blurted,“So youweren’t fucking Jake Harbor?”
   “What?” Adrienne snorted. “Jake? Hell no. Whatever gave you THAT idea?”
   “Uh, well…” I stammered. I’d been doing that a lot lately, a sign of how messed up my life was becoming. “It just seemed that every time you couldn’t meet up with me, I found you two flirting and giggling and touching each other. Elyse insinuated that you two were doing a little something on the side. And Donna said that having your little flings on the side was just something you always did.”
   “Elyse? Donna? You’re listening to THOSE two?” Adrienne glared at me, piercing through whatever fog of painkillers she was on.
   “Well… I… uh…” I stammered, looking nervous.
   Adrienne fixed her look on me and clearly saw something in my eyes, because the next moment she looked ready to jump out of bed and tackle me, weak energy or not.“Ben. Did you do something stupid?”
   “Well… I… uh…” I stammered.
   “Ben…” she warned.
   I winced and felt a mental flashback to when I admitted my indiscretion to Megan and Cassidy. We’d all been in the foothills, watching the sun setting over the ocean in a romantic and beautiful moment. And then seconds later they were doing their best to beat the crap out of me.
   Now it was time for Beating: Part 2. I sighed and looked at the floor.“I had sex with Cassidy on Monday.”
   Things were very quiet for a long minute. No sounds. I don’t think I was even breathing. The seconds ticked by with agonizing slowness.
   One…
   Two…
   Three…
   …
   Twenty-eight…
   Somewhere around sixty-seven, Adrienne said quietly.“Get out.”
   I picked my head up and gave her a pained look. I saw the tears streaking down Adrienne’s cheeks and my instinct was to step forward and comfort her. But the moment I moved forward she held a hand up to stop me.
   “I thought you were different, Ben. I thought I could trust you. I was falling in love with you. Don’t you see, Ben? I would have given you my heart. But now I see that you’re just another guy,” she said coldly.
   Maybe my ears were full of mucus from the sniffles that were threatening me as well, but I could have sworn I heard some of Megan’s voice in Adrienne’s words. “Adrienne…” I pleaded.
   “Get out,” she said a little more harshly.
   So I left.* * *
   Adrienne didn’t return to school the next day. Ostensibly, it was because she was still sick. But even her absence didn’t prevent the spread of information.
   At lunch, Candy just gave me the cold shoulder. Adrienne must have told her best friend. Even Mizuho glared at me. Something told me the pretty Japanese girl’s invitation for recreational sex was no longer valid. And I knew better than to try and eat lunch with their group that day.
   Oddly enough, Kenny Doyle caught up to me while I was meandering aimlessly around the main quad.“You looking for a place to sit down?” he asked.
   “Uh, kinda, yeah.”
   “C’mon, bro,” he head-nodded and I followed him over.
   Sung and Daniel smiled as I approached the old table. Elaine frowned, Megan looked at me oddly, and Cassidy had an unreadable expression. I still wound up at the far end of the table with just guys around me, but for today, I could live with it. At least I wasn’t completely outcast from EVERYONE.
   But it still hurt inside. I missed my“new” old crew: Lynne and Mizuho and Jae and Summer, etc. And so I was pretty quiet at lunch. And when it was over, I looked off to see Megan, Cassidy, and Elaine walking away together in a pack, their heads bowed together as they were deep in conversation.
   I stayed pretty quiet all the way home.* * *
   Thursday was more of the same. Summer and Lynne were still friendly with me and the others weren’t exactly making me feel like a leper, unlike the first time I’d been in this situation. Perhaps their group was a little more jaded on the whole concept of cheating. But I still didn’t want to attempt eating lunch with them. It would just be too awkward.
   So once again, I ate with my old crew, albeit on the outer edge. But this time, when the meal was finished but well before the bells rang, Cassidy walked around and tapped me on the shoulder, nodding her head off towards a more private space.
   I brightened almost immediately. Cassidy, at least, was someone who still loved me. Even after cheating the first time, Cassidy had forgiven me and still hoped for reconciliation. She’d wanted to get back together with me. And after we’d had sex on Monday, the first thing she asked me on Tuesday was whether or not I’d broken up with Adrienne.
   Well, Adrienne had ordered me out of her life. And as much as that hurt, it meant that I was free again. So maybe now Cassidy and I could get back together the way she’d always wanted!
   I got up, cognizant that a dozen pairs of eyes were on me and Cassidy, and I followed her over. Megan and Elaine trailed us but kept their distance. And once Cassidy and I were standing in a semi-private alcove, I realized that we were positioned so that Cassidy could see her friends just past my shoulder, perhaps as support for what she had to say to me.
   That knowledge tempered my rising hope. The fact that Cassidy might need their support couldn’t bode well for me. And the tone in the redhead’s first words didn’t help ease my anxiety. “Look, Ben…”
   My heart sank. It didn’t drop so much as fall back to where it had been most of the past couple of days. Cassidy caught the expression on my face and she faltered in her carefully prepared speech. I felt Megan and Elaine drawing closer.
   But Cassidy looked up at the ceiling and sighed, gathering herself and stopping Megan and Elaine’s advance. And when she looked at me, there were tears in her eyes. “Ben, I’m still in love with you.”
   The words were nice, but the wince on Cassidy’s face and the pain in her eyes were certainly not encouraging.
   “Ben, I want us to get back together; but I’m afraid. I’m afraid you’d break my heart.”
   “Cassidy…” I began.
   “No, no, wait. Let me finish,” she held up a hand to stop me. “I love you, Ben. But I don’t trust you. You cheated once on me. That, I might be able to handle. I told you I understood. But you cheated again.”
   “With you!” I protested.
   “Doesn’t matter,” Cassidy grimaced. “I have to live with what I did myself. I wanted you Ben. I seduced you. You didn’t exactly protest, but I know my own role in what I did. I’ll have to apologize to Adrienne when I see her.”
   I frowned and looked confused. Cassidy took a deep breath and then looked me straight in the eye.“We’re not getting back together, Ben. For months it’s all I wanted, but now that it’s here, I know it’s not what’s best for me. You’re just a guy, Ben. And you’re actually MORE susceptible than most guys. You’ve got a reputation at this school. You’ve got dozens of girls aroundhere who want to get into your pants. It’ll happen again. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow. But it’ll happen again. I just can’t trust you, Ben.”
   “But I’m broken up with Adrienne! It’s what you wanted, isn’t it?” I whined.
   Cassidy’s eyes hardened as she glared at me like I’d just insulted her. “I am NOT just your fallback option, Ben. You can’t just crawl back to me because Miss Big Tits dumps you for cheating. I will NOT be second fiddle to HER.”
   “Freckles…” I pleaded.
   “No, Ben. I still love you. I’ve got to deal with that. And I’m not saying forever… but…” she exhaled. And for a long few seconds, she stared at the floor.
   I stayed silent and waited her out. I didn’t have a moral leg to stand on and opening my mouth at this point would only make things worse.
   At last, Cassidy just shook her head and sighed.“I’m sorry, Ben.” And then with tears streaking down her face, she walked past me and right into the waiting arms of both Megan and Elaine.
   And now I REALLY felt alone.* * *
   In the darkest pits of despair, I walked through the shadows with my head down, cringing against the light. Hunched over, I felt like I was four feet tall. The end of the school day couldn’t come fast enough.
   After the last bell, I walked listlessly towards the parking lot. My pace was slow enough that many of my classmates walked around me and continued on their way, like a stream of cars at rush hour buzzing past the completely random dude riding a bicycle down the middle of the freeway.
   More than a few people bumped me. Some were accidental, just kids in a hurry. Others were annoyed people who wanted to give me a love tap in reminder of how much I was delaying their lives. I’m just surprised no one punched me in the back of the head.
   But only one person grabbed my ass. I stiffened and stood straight at the contact and felt a fresh piece of paper sliding into my back pocket. Standing next to me was a beautiful bottle-blonde, with a pretty face and a honeyed smile. Her big tits made themselves obvious through her blouse, which had several buttons undone. If she hadn’t been wearing the white tank top underneath, she probably would have been suspended for indecency.
   Donna Kincaid’s eyes twinkled as she leaned in and whispered into my ear, “Here’s my address. Why don’t you stop by and we can… chat…”
   I grimaced and looked over at the busty slut.“I don’t think I’d be much use to you in this current state.”
   “You let me worry about that, Big Ben. I’mvery good at improving people’s moods.”* * *
   What the hell was I doing here? Sure, I had nowhere else to go. Adrienne hated me. Cassidy didn’t trust me. But I still knew in the back of my head that I shouldn’t be here. I really should just turn around, get back in my car, and go home. I could entertain myself playing board games with Brooke and the twins.
   Twice, I turned around to leave. Both times, I turned back. I was about to get laid, and with all the stress and pain I’d been through in the past few days, the idea of getting laid sounded REALLY good. After all, with no more girlfriends, I had NO idea the next time I’d have the chance to have sex with someone other than my right hand.
   Eventually, Donna opened the door and all further debates were rendered pointless. Subtlety was not high on this girl’s list of priorities, and the curly blonde teenage sex bomb greeted me wearing nothing but a pair of porno-high heels and a smile.
   And her naked body wasglorious.
   It was a good thing her front door opened on the side of the house, with a high fence warding the next door neighbor. It meant that no one but me could see the state of dress Donna was in. She posed prettily, then lifted her chin while smiling enigmatically and hooked a finger towards me, beckoning me inside. Obediently, I entered and she swung the door closed with a casual push.
   I still wasn’t feeling particularly sexy or confident in this moment. I felt more like a dog that had been crossing the street during a rainstorm and had subsequently been hit by two cars, thrown against the pavement, and THEN trampled by a toddler who thought my coat of fur made for a nice playpen. But my dick recognized a hot female’s naked body and I was quickly sporting quite the erection in my jeans. After all, the damn thing hadn’t been used since Monday.
   Unfettered, Donna’s heavy tits sagged just enough to prove that they were real. The round orbs looked as big as Dayna’s. Overall, she wasn’t as toned or fit as some of the cheerleaders, but she wasn’t chunky either. Her ass was nicely padded, her skin was clear, and she had the curvaceous appeal of a healthy girl who liked her sex, built for “comfort” as they say.
   We didn’t bother with preliminaries. Donna simply moved me over to the couch and then sat me down, kneeling on the floor so that she could begin removing my clothes. My jeans and shorts came first, and the beautiful blonde simply sighed happily. “I KNEW you’d have a great cock.”
   “Thanks,” I started saying, but the word turned into a grunt as she quickly ducked her head and deep-throated me on the very first try.
   I barely knew the girl. I knew her name and her reputation, but we’d really never carried on a conversation lasting more than a couple of minutes. I didn’t know if she had siblings or what her parents did for a living. I didn’t know how old she was or what plans for the future she had. But I knew she was good-looking and right now, all I cared about her wasthat she had her mouth wrapped around my dick.
   And this girl could suck cock. She was wet. She was sloppy. And she could do INCREDIBLE things with her lips.
   “Oh, FUCK, Donna!” I grunted. She was right. She wasvery good at improving moods. Right now, all I could think about was sex. Girlfriend issues, upcoming college applications, family issues, none of them mattered. I was getting the blowjob of a lifetime and all too quickly, I felt myself losing orgasmic control.
   When I came, I came buckets. After being wickedly pleasured by this accomplished fellatrix, I shot off like a cannon, blasting great wads of built-up cum into the back of Donna’s throat. Her eyes bulged when she felt the force of my first impact, and then I watched her throat muscles working overtime as she fought to keep up.
   Eventually, the hot blonde drained me of every drop of semen I had in my body, leaving me a limp puddle of flesh on her couch. I’d sagged until I was practically lying down, with my hips at the edge of the seat and my head flopping over the backrest so that I stared at the ceiling somewhere behind me.
   “Holy crap…” I groaned. That particular orgasm had been quite the stress relief.
   “Like that?” Donna smirked while reaching down with one finger to scoop up a stray glob of jism from her chin.
   “Oh, hell yeah…”
   “Think you can return the favor?” The impish nymph winked at me as she settled onto the couch beside me, spreading her legs to the sides and reaching down to spread apart her own labia with her fingers.
   I grinned and rolled over to kneel between the hot blonde’s thighs, leaning down with my tongue extended. For all Donna’s experience, I’d show her she’d NEVER had a lover like me.* * *
   They say that meaningless sex is just a complex form of masturbation. Well fine. I happen to LIKE masturbation. It feels good. Nobody’s hurt. Why the hell not?
   I’d made love with girls I deeply cared about. I’d fucked the shit out of them too, when the mood was right. I’d also had boring maintenance sex; you know, routine-not-so-great-but-decent-enough sex in the middle of a relationship. There’s a time and place for all of them.
   And when none of the above were options, I happily settled for complex masturbation. And Donna Kincaid was a VERY good partner in that regard.
   She was limber, athletic, and kinky as hell. She never took her heels off. I’m not sure I could have figured out the complicated straps that wrapped around her ankles anyways. They actually made things easier. When I fucked her on the floor, Donna was able to grab the heels and tug her legs even wider to allow my cock that extra eighth of an inch of penetration so that my cockhead repeatedly banged against her cervix. And when I fucked her from behind, I was able to use the heels to hold her feet together while her knees were splayed out to the sides, similarly stretching her in a way that I thought would be painful but apparently she enjoyed.
   In fact, Donna enjoyed just about everything. Her clit was large and extremely sensitive. Her G-spot seemed to be her entire pussy. And everything I did made her cum. And she couldn’t have been faking them. The hot teen squirted so much I’m surprised she wasn’t dehydrated. If I could cum that easily, I’d be having sex as often as possible, too.
   Donna went nuts when I blindfolded her and repeatedly spanked her mid-fuck. That part was exciting for me. But I got a little freaked out when she had me squeeze her neck lightly while I drilled her missionary style on the bed. And after I plugged Donna’s asshole full of cum, I felt both aroused and disgusted when she squirted it all out into a brandy tumbler and then drank it back up with a straw.
   By then, it was 4pm and we’d already screwed in a half-dozen positions. Donna and I took a shower together, of course resulting in her breasts becoming squeaky clean. And then once outside, Donna slipped into a bathrobe and then tossed me my clothes.
   I frowned,“What? Done already? I’ve got two more hours!”
   The beautiful teen slicked back her hair, the dark roots now blending in with her wet tresses. And she fixed me with an impish smile.“Really? You’ve already cum three times! You came in all my holes and gave me dozens of orgasms, Big Ben. You certainly lived up to your reputation already.”
   I pulled away my towel to reveal my latest erection.“And I still got more. I WAS dating All-Day Adrienne.”
   Donna giggles became full blown laughter as I darted forward and scooped her up into my arms. A minute later, I had her pinned to her bed with her feet in the air. And we both growled and giggled as my cock smoothly pistoned in and out of her sloppy, wet cunt.* * *
   Back at home, I couldn’t look my own sister in the eye as I hung my head in shame. I wasn’t proud of what I’d done. In a moment of weakness, I’d succumbed to temptation and fucked the school slut.
   Hey, Donna certainly knew how to use her body and the sex had been quite satisfying. But that was it. Hours later, the high of my complex masturbation wore off and I was right back into my emotional hole. And at dinner, when my parents asked why I’d been out of it for the past few days, Brooke helpfully informed them that I was having problems with Adrienne.
   Mom clucked.“Oh, but you two seemed so happy together! I thought it was so cute that you were dating a girl from just across the street.”
   I absorbed my mom’s sympathy and glared at Brooke for informing the parental units of my romantic complications. At least the rumors had not yet spread that I’d cheated on Adrienne. As far as most people knew, we’d simply broken up and I was returning to my old crew.
   That is… IF I still had an old crew to return to. I’d gotten back on good terms with the gang, playing basketball with the boys, flirting back with the Sanders twins, and even becoming at least cordial with Megan and Elaine. But sleeping again with Cassidy threatened to undo all that, and I had no idea what the next day held for me.
   Maybe, just maybe, it was time I started to consider the consequences of my actions before I stuck my dick into a girl.* * *
   Adrienne returned to school on Friday. She looked fit and healthy, if still just a bit weak from painkillers and too many days spent sleeping. She was also walking a bit funny. I’m just a guy and therefore I will never know what it’s like to have your uterus operated on, but just watching Adrienne walk, I imagined it wasn’t very pleasant.
   I made no attempts to approach Adrienne when I saw her. She was always with one or more of her friends, and the one time I looked like I was going to say something in passing, Candy just shot me a look and the beautiful young women cruised down the hallway as if I didn’t exist.
   On the bright side, my other friends were just as welcoming and accepting of me as they’d been for the past week. Kenny, Daniel and the boys chatted me up in the corridors and even Megan greeted me in passing between classes. And then at lunch, Cassidy went out of her way to say hello to me and make every attempt to have a normal conversation, although I found it difficult to hold up my end as I was still hurting from her outright rejection of me the day before. But I tried. I really did.
   She still loved me. Who knew what the future held?
   In the end I spent most of the lunch period chatting with my boys and planning on Saturday’s basketball game. And when it was time to move along, we got up and headed for the trash can only to find that Adrienne was standing between us and the can, her arms folded over her prodigious chest, Candy and Mizuho flanking her on each side.
   Suddenly nervous, Kenny and Daniel decided to make themselves invisible and practically hid behind me. Well, Kenny actually ducked behind me. Daniel muttered something about Elaine and headed for his girlfriend.
   Nervously, I stepped forward ready to receive whatever verbal lashing she wanted to administer. I thought I heard the courtyard quiet as conversations died all around us while people decided to witness whatever was about to go down.
   But it wasn’t anything serious. Adrienne just fixed me with a serious gaze and said, “We need to talk.”
   “Okay,” I replied, stiffening my back and trying to stand as tall as possible, projecting an air of confidence.
   “Come by my house this afternoon.”
   “Okay.”
   Adrienne spun about face, and walked away.
   I was used to meeting up at Adrienne’s on a Friday afternoon. But something told me this wasn’t going to be anything like our usual dates.* * *
   She met me at her door just like she’d done dozens of times. Only this time, there were no strategically undone buttons on her blouse and she didn’t tackle me the moment I got into the foyer.
   Adrienne did, however, step forward and wrap her arms behind my head, pulling me close for a slow burn kiss that brought back so many pleasant memories. I had more than my fair share of lovers over the past year or so. I enjoyed my time with all of them, and I’d felt a lot of emotion for some of them. But no one excited me like Adrienne. I felt a rush of adrenaline and arousal coursing through my body as I gripped her tighter. And for a few blissful moments, I believed that everything would go back to normal.
   But Adrienne pulled away, pain evident on her face despite the pleasure of our kiss. Her eyebrows furrowed and she turned away from me, heading into the living room and leaving me to close the door behind myself.
   The beautiful young woman was sitting on the couch and made no move to distance us when I took a seat next to her. But she didn’t touch me again as she collected her thoughts. I just waited her out silently.
   At last, Adrienne took a deep breath and asked,“Do you still love me?”
   “Yes,” I said sincerely.
   “Do you still love her?”
   I took a deep breath, blinking several times. We both knew she was referring to Cassidy, the girl I’d cheated on Adrienne with. I winced and then hedged, “Not like I love you.”
   “But you do, right?” Adrienne said firmly. “I mean, she’s your ex-girlfriend. You even warned me in the beginning that you were still half in love with Megan and Cassidy and it hasn’t even been two full months.”
   Grimacing, I closed my eyes and briefly prayed that this whole thing would just go away by the time I opened them again. I HATED this. Life was so much easier when it was just me and Megan. But it didn’t go away, and Adrienne was still looking at me intently as I opened my eyes.
   “You know Cassidy apologized to me today?” Adrienne chuckled. “She walked right up to me in front of Candy and Summer and told me she was deeply sorry for seducing you. I couldn’t believe it.”
   I arched an eyebrow. Cassidy hadtold me she was going to do so and I didn’t believe it.
   “I was so bemused I actually told her right there that I wasn’t mad at her. If nothing else, fair was fair since I’d seduced you away from her in the first place.” Adrienne looked off past my shoulder as if reliving the moment. “That didn’t really go over so well. We both got kind of awkward after that. But I think we both felt a little relief from guilt after that.”
   Both my eyebrows went up in amazement, but I bit my lip nervously.
   Adrienne just sighed again and then asked softly,“Do you want to start dating her again?”
   I took a deep breath and then shook my head in the negative.“Cassidy doesn’t want me anyways. She says she still loves me but she can’t trust me.”
   “I’m not sure I can trust you,” Adrienne shook her head. But she inhaled and sat up straighter, inadvertently expanding her bosom and making me do the yo-yo thing to glance at her tits. “Then again, I’m not exactly pure as the driven snow, either, Ben.”
   I arched my eyebrow, old jealousy bubbling up to the surface.“Wait, have you—?”
   “No, no. Not since we’ve been together. I’ve been loyal,” Adrienne said firmly. And then she exhaled mournfully. “But that’s not the way I usually am. I’ve certainly done my share of cheating, Ben. In fact, I don’t think I’ve ever had a boyfriend I didn’t eventually cheat on. And to be perfectly honest, I HAD started scoping out other boys ever since Prom.”
   I blinked at that, not sure how to react.“You had?”
   Adrienne took a deep breath and then sighed.“I’m an attention-whore, Ben. I know it. It’s why I get so turned on by all the guys flirting with me at parties or staring at me when I’m cheerleading. And it’s… tempting… to take some of those guys to the next step past flirting. They clearly throw themselves at me, wanting to fuck.It’s probably as tempting as it is for you when a girl throws herself at you, wanting to fuck.”
   She closed her eyes, and still with eyes closed she said,“And it can only be harder when you know the girl is in love with you and that you still have feelings for her as well.”
   I felt the first stirring of hope inside me. Could Adrienne actually forgive me? So I asked,“What are you saying?”
   She took a deep breath and then said,“Ben, what I’m saying is that I don’t want to give up on us just yet. I know things haven’t been as exciting for us lately as they were at first. New love and intense passion fading and all. Honeymoon phases…”
   Adrienne waved her hand absently as she rattled off all the relationship psychobabble we’d heard on TV and from friends. “But… I AM falling for you, Ben. And I don’t want to lose this. You listen to me like no other boy has ever done before. You treat me like a queen when we’re together, but you also know just when to fuck me like a whore when I want it.”
   I started leaning into her, letting my intense attraction, lust, and affection for this gorgeous creature swell up inside me. I moved my hands forward and Adrienne slipped her palms over mine, twisting our fingers together as little smiles crossed both our faces.
   “Ben, I want to promise you I won’t ever cheat again,” Adrienne said earnestly, her eyes glowing from a light tan towards golden. “I can change. I can be loyal. I want to be… for you. I want to be better.”
   “Okay,” I smiled.
   “And can I trust you, Ben? Can you make me the same promise?” Adrienne twisted her mouth up in fear and concern. “Candy says I’m crazy. Once a cheater, always a cheater. She can’t even make Trevor swear to be loyal because she knows he can’t. But if you tell me you can be loyal, I’ll believe you.” Her eyes were shining, and Adrienne was never more beautiful than she was in this moment.
   Energy swelled inside me as I broke out into a wide smile. But then another thought entered my head. Could I? Could I really be loyal? I WANTED to be better myself. But was I even capable?
   Cassidy wanted to be with me, but she couldn’t trust me. Keira warned me that I needed to take a step back from everything and figure out who I really was and what I really wanted. I HAD been led around by my dick. And right now, if I promised Adrienne my loyalty and didn’t keep my word, I would beforever finished with her. I didn’t want that.
   And then my mouth went dry as I realized one other thing: I had committed another indiscretion, with Donna. Knowing what I knew now, that Adrienne would want me back, I would never have gone over to Donna’s place. But it was too late. I had.
   Perhaps I could lie or just hope it all went away. Maybe Adrienne would never find out? But I’d watched enough movies to know better. The girl ALWAYS found out. And if I didn’t come clean now that mistake would surely come back to haunt me even worse. And in that knowledge, I felt all hope fleeing my body.
   Adrienne’s face fell as she watched my expression drop from earnest enthusiasm to nervous shame. By the time my smile went away completely, she dropped her hands from mine and glared at me, realizing that my answer wouldn’t be what she’d been hoping for. That light in her eyes flickered and dimmed. “Ben?” she asked in a frightened voice.
   I wasfucked. And not in a good way. Nervously, I began,“I want to promise. I want to believe.” I took a deep breath. “But I’m not sure I can keep that promise.”
   Adrienne’s jaw quivered. “Why not?”
   I sighed and looked down in shame.“Because… I’m… I don’t have a very good track record of this, Adrienne. A hot girl flashes some skin at me or starts kissing me and I get a stiffy and my brain turns into sperm. I did it with you. I did it with Cassidy.”
   “You resisted Elyse.” Adrienne shook her head, willing herself to believe. Then she leaned in and squeezed my hands, looking adoringly into my eyes. “That was one of the most important days of my life, Ben. I KNOW you have the potential to be the man I think you can be. The kind of man I can finally trust with my heart. And you brushed aside Donna.”
   The moment the name Donna escaped her lips, I closed my eyes and winced. Adrienne caught on immediately and pounced. Her voice elevated in pitch and volume.“Wait, Donna Kincaid?”
   Now I was pinching my eyes shut and cringing as if waiting to be slapped.
   “The same Donna Kincaid who stole Robbie Pederson from me?” Adrienne’s voice got louder. “Dyed-blonde hair? Big boobs? School slut? That Donna?” Adrienne spat rapid-fire.
   I cringed and nodded, daring to peek my eyes open. I was just in time to see Adrienne’s hand whizzing at my head.
   “OWW!!!” I yelped when her slap impacted right on top of my ear, turning the sensitive cartilage red.
   “WHEN???” Adrienne thundered and hit me again. “While we were dating???”
   “Oww! No!” I protested with my arms over my face.
   “Then when?” Adrienne slapped me one more time.
   “Yesterday!” I exclaimed and then tried to explain, “You’d dumped me! Cassidy didn’t want to go near me! I was depressed and alone and she threw herself at me!”
   “I never dumped you!” Adrienne shrieked. “I just didn’t want to see you for a couple of days because I was pissed and I was on painkillers!”
   Oh, I’d never thought of it that way.
   “FUUUUCK!” Adrienne screamed as she got up and turned around, waving her arms and slapping air. Then she sat upright and did the math, shaking her head in disgust. “That was Tuesday! Two days? You fucked her after two days! You really CAN’T keep it in your pants, can you?”
   Adrienne spun back to me, her eyes now glowing in golden fireballs that were NOT welcoming. And then she ran back to start hitting me again while I cowered and tried to protect my face.
   This time, Adrienne made clear that I was dumped.* * *
   “So what’s the deal with you and Adrienne?” Kenny asked casually as he bounced the ball back to me, giving me my change after nailing a warm-up three-pointer.
   “Dude, I don’t wanna talk about it,” I said as I dribbled to the left and drained another.
   He shrugged and this time Daniel bounced the ball back to me. Kenny then looked up and smiled with a lustful grin on his face.“So… does this mean Adrienne’s available now?”
   Kenny just barely had enough time to turn away before I flung the ball square into the middle of his back.* * *
   On Monday, I arrived at school to find the absolute WEIRDEST scene I could have ever possibly imagined. You know how they say the enemy of my enemy is my friend? Well, as I cruised over to my old crew’s usual hangout, I stopped dead in my tracks when I saw that Megan, Cassidy, and Adrienne were all sitting together and talking.
   Yeah, my two original girlfriends were chatting with my most recent ex-girlfriend, the same girl who’d stolen mefrom them in the first place. Oh, this could NOT be good.
   Just then, Adrienne looked up, saw me, and immediately broke into tears. Cassidy leaned forward, whispering something and stroking her former rival’s back. Megan craned her head around to see what had caused the tall blonde’s latest emotional breakdown, and of course saw me standing there with a dumbstruck expression on my face.
   The petite Chinese girl then got up and swiftly walked over to me. I neither approached her nor fled. I just sagged where I was standing and waited for the inevitable verbal beatdown.
   “You really know how to fuck up a situation, don’t you, Ben?” Megan shook her head at me. “Donna Kincaid?”
   I grimaced and looked apologetic. There were no words that would bail me out of this situation.
   “When did you become one of the bad boys, Ben?” Megan asked coldly, her eyes mere slits as she glared.
   I sighed and looked my ex-girlfriend in the eye.“I was always a bad boy, Megan. I always wanted to get laid. I may not have ever pushed a girl beyond what she wanted to give me, but if she’d ever give me the whole enchilada, I would have taken it in a heartbeat.” I shrugged and exhaled loudly. “Every guy wants to be a bad boy, Megan.”
   Megan frowned and then took another step closer to me, softly putting her hand on my chest and looking down. She took a deep breath and then looked up into my eyes, all traces of anger gone, leaving only her concern.“Not always, Ben. You forget, I threw myself at you once. You decided, on your own, that I wasn’t ready. And you let me wait until my 16th birthday, remember?”
   I looked up and thought back. Hmm, I did wait. I frowned, wondering where I’d gone wrong.
   Megan saw the change on my face and said.“Good Ben is still in there somewhere. I know it.”
   I sighed.“If you find him, will you let me know?”
   Megan smirked and rubbed my chest.“Of course I will. I want to meet him, maybe even more than you. And I believe in you, Ben. Right now, you’re getting swept up in your own legend. Girls keep offering and you keep taking. But someday, hopefully soon, you’ll realize how empty that makes you feel inside.”
   I stared at my friend, wondering how the hell a girl I’d hurt so badly could still care about me. After we’d broken up, I figured the best I could hope for was just “non-hostile acquaintance”.
   Megan smiled and patted my chest.“When you realize that and decide you want to be a good person again, give me a call.”
   And with that enigmatic little smile, my first girlfriend turned around and walked back to her group.* * *
   I spent a lot of that day in self-introspection. I walked alone in between periods. At lunch, I deliberately went and found a quiet spot all by myself so I wouldn’t be distracted by anyone. And I pondered my existence.
   Having a girlfriend was fantastic. Yeah, I really liked the feeling of partnership and companionship, but above all, I LOVED having a regular source for sex. So far, I’d been considering two sexual encounters a week the bare minimum. But without a girlfriend, I wouldn’t have that regular source anymore. I might not get ANY.
   So in that sense, I wanted to find another girlfriend. But even if I found a girl I wanted to be with that much, could I stay loyal? Maybe not. My track record certainly sucked in that regard. And beyond that, there was Keira’s suggestion that I step back from my relationships for a while to figure out what and who I really wanted. Maybe I needed some time to back away and figure out what real love truly was.
   But in the middle of all this introspection on the nature of love and the natural conflict between my desire to be loyal and my impulses to just get laid, I got rather sidetracked. Or rather, several people kept on distracting me.
   First there was Donna. After lunch while I was walking to my next class, the sultry bottle-blonde sidled up next to me and slid her hand into my back pocket. There was no piece of paper this time; she just wanted to palm my ass.“Hey there, big boy. Had a great time last week. You up for an encore sometime?”
   I was still in the mode of trying to be“Good Ben” so I shook my head and arched an eyebrow. “What, you want to go steady or something?”
   “Steady? Hell no,” Donna yanked her hand out from my jeans. She looked me up and down and then smirked. “But tell you what, gimme a call any time you’re feeling a little… lonely. Word is going around that Adrienne dumped you and you’re now a free agent. So if you find yourself looking for some no-frills company, you know where I live and you’ve got my number.”
   I nodded.“Sure, Donna. We’ll see.”
   She grinned and bounced away.
   And that got me thinking. Maybe even without a girlfriend, I could still get laid twice a week, and without worrying about the whole loyalty aspect of things.
   The second distraction came in the form of Stacey Whitehouse, a beautiful, willowy Senior brunette whose family had more money than just about anyone in school. She intercepted me between fifth and sixth periods to strike up a conversation out of the blue. The girl had never talked to me before in my life, and yet here she was asking about how I was doing and how she’d heard I’d broken up with Adrienne and did I have plans for Friday night?
   Stacey’s family was from Vermont or something and she spoke with an alluring upscale New England accent. I was nearly seduced by the sound of her voice and her obvious interest. But again I was still in “Good Ben” mode so I gently and politely turned her down, making clear that I was certainly interested (she had a pretty hot body), but that I wanted to take some time to myself before jumping back into the dating game.
   The mild rejection sent her two disciples tittering from their spot three feet behind us. Stacey shot them a glare and then graciously accepted my answer. She did however insist,“When you do get back in the game, be sure to look me up,” she said in that enticing accent. The tease of her tongue on her lips and the way her soft brown eyes twinkled at me.
   I nodded agreement and then Stacey stopped my forward progress with a hand to my chest.“Just don’t take too long Ben. I’m graduating soon and well,” she gave me a saucy grin. “I just want to have some fun with what time I have left. Nothing serious. You understand?”
   The breathy pant in Stacey’s voice and the way she pinched her arms together to squeeze her cleavage made her intentions quite clear. I let my eyes drop to the exposed creamy flesh and then back up into her eyes. And feeling my mouth water, I nodded and then said, “Sure, I’ll let you know.”
   After Stacey, I started noticing all the looks I was getting in the hallways. Various coteries of girls would giggle as I passed and then huddle together once I moved on. A couple of meatheads I sort of knew slapped me on the back and expressed their sympathies over my breakup with Adrienne, simultaneously feeling bad for me and also asking how she was in the sack.
   After the last class, the Sanders twins ran into me and then both cute brunettes were flirting outrageously, giggling constantly and making up random excuses to touch my arm or brush themselves against my hip. And even some other cheerleaders passed me with waves, a flirty wink, or a sexy“Hiii, Bennn.” Those girls seemed unconcerned that I’d just broken up with one of their fellow cheerleaders.
   So once I got home, I found myself sitting on my bed, my hands apart and palms up as if weighing the two options: I could take Keira’s and Megan’s advice and rediscover Good Ben. I’d settle down and really contemplate what I wanted out of my life, search for the meaning of real love, and commit myself to forging that kind of emotional connection and prioritizing it over physical satisfaction. I could choose what was rightover what was easy.
   Or, I could embrace my inner bad boy and get laid with as many chicks as possible. And it would feel SOOO good.
   My brain knew what was right. After all, I KNEW both Keira and Megan cared a lot about me and wanted what was best for me. But for now, my head was starting to hurt from too much thinking. And my hormones were acting up since I hadn’t gotten off since last Thursday, my dick throbbing with its own need. And there was a piece of paper sitting right next to my phone, beckoning to me.
   So making a decision, I grabbed the paper and lifted the handset out of the telephone cradle.* * *
   Forty minutes later, I slammed my hips forward, my ab muscles tense and vibrating while the ecstasy flooded my mind.
   “FUCK ME, BEN! HARDER! RAM THAT BIG DICK INTO MY LITTLE CUNT!”
   My hands squeezed tighter around the big orbs in my grasp. My fingers pinched down on the erect nipples as the heavy boobs were simultaneously supple and firm against my palms. And using them as handholds, I jerked her lighter body back against my hips, using the leverage to cram an extra eighth of an inch of meat into her spasming snatch.
   “HARDER! DEEPER! FUUUUCK!” she cried, tossing her blonde hair into the air as she arched her back and squealed in orgasm.
   Once more I slammed my crotch against her tight ass. Once more I felt the exquisite pleasure of my hypersensitive cock battering apart her vaginal folds which squeezed me so nicely as I burrowed all the way down to her cervical wall.
   “I’M CUMMING! I’M FUCKING CUMMING ON YOUR COCK!”
   And so was I. Wave after wave of pleasure shot through my brain, matching each volley of jism I was spurting out into the willing cunt beneath me. I felt sooo niiice.
   “FILL ME! CREAM ME! DROWN ME IN YOUR SPERM!”
   She was willing. I was willing. Hey, what was the problem? None as far as I could tell. And when I was done filling her up with spunk, I pulled out and flopped onto my back, gasping for oxygen.
   Donna Kincaid rolled her naked body next to me, propping herself up with one elbow. Her big tits squished together, forming a line of cleavage parallel to the mattress.“Feel good?”
   “Fuck, yeah,” I grunted.
   “That’s all that matters.” She grinned and giggled, “Welcome to the world of being a slut.”
   Chapter 16: Casual SexJUNE 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Unnnnnh! Ohhhhhh! Unnnnnh!” The hot brunette before me had been whining and whimpering constantly for the past fifteen minutes.
   I held myself balls deep inside the tight, clenching pussy. With my hands gripping her slender hips, I ground my pelvic bone against her asscheeks and pivoted my cock inside her, stretching out her vaginal walls.
   Her head hung down between her shoulder blades in this doggy-style position, her silky brown hair cascading down to the mattress and revealing the creamy skin of her neck. And since I wasn’t presently pounding her body and throwing her off-balance, she was able to support herself on just her right arm while her left hand rubbed insistently at her own clit.
   And from the combination of my thick cock rubbing her insides and her own manual manipulations, Stacey Whitehouse, wealthy and beautiful Senior babe, started her orgasm.
   Her back bowed into a reversed arch, her belly heading towards the bed while her shoulders went rigid, and she thrust her ass up against me. She tossed her head back, sending that mane of dark hair flying into the air, and her scream was loud enough that the maids would have no doubt what was occurring inside their employer’s daughter’s bedroom.
   I kept rotating my dick while she spasmed. And towards the tail end of her climax, I re-started pumping my shaft in and out of her. Stacey’s hips bucked and heaved against me as her orgasm played out, and then she let her arms collapse as she dropped down to the bed, only her ass held upright by my cock currently skewering her cunt.
   She managed to balance on her knees long enough for me to thrust my way up to the edge of my own climax, and as I felt the pressure building, I grunted out my warning.“I’m gonna cum, Stacey.”
   It was part of the routine. She was protected, but her parents had drilled into her the dangers of getting knocked up when she had such a high net worth, and so she never let a boy cum inside her pussy, period. If he did, that would be the last time he ever touched her. I didn’t mind. There were plenty of other places to leave my deposits.
   Stacey thrust against me twice more, not yet willing to give up the full sensations, but then she leaned away from me until my dick popped free and she flopped around onto her back. I hurriedly scooted forward on my knees until I was straddling her chest; and she quickly seized my cock in her left hand and began stroking me in earnest.
   “Cum on me, Ben,” Stacey urged in that alluring accent. “Cum all over my naked body.” I LOVED the way she pronounced ‘body’ like ‘bohd-dee’.
   As the pleasure overwhelmed me, I looked down to see the pretty brunette with perfect makeup and grooming tilt her head back and open her mouth gaping wide. It was such an inviting target, and with a low grunt I let my first wad fly.
   Her aim was slightly off from her jacking motions, and the first string of cum lanced across her nose and down across her upper lip. But the second shot went straight in, and the third. And then smiling broadly as she swallowed, Stacey let her head fall back against the mattress and she continued jerking me, letting the rest of my jism dribble out and splatter over her neck and tits while she bathed herself in my cream shower.
   Five minutes and a couple of washcloths later, I was fully dressed and Stacey wrapped herself in a silky, sheer robe. She escorted me to the front doors of her personal suite, and when she opened them, a maid was already waiting in the hallway.
   “Ma’am,” the maid bowed to Stacey and then handed me a Gatorade. The maid had come prepared after the last few visits.
   Then the maid turned to me.“Will there be anything else, sir?”
   Stacey chuckled.“No, I think he got everything he came for.”
   I smiled in agreement.
   Stacey sighed and leaned against the doorjamb.“When can you visit again?”
   I thought over my schedule and Stacey’s typical intervals. She usually wanted to get fucked every four or five days or so. It was a Saturday so I suggested, “How about Thursday?”
   Stacey smiled and then leaned in to peck me on the lips.“See you then!”
   The maid then escorted me out. Just another routine afternoon.* * *
   Brooke met me by the door when I came in. She took one look at me and then obviously sniffed the air. She was wearing just a thin cotton top and I swore I could see some dents forming above the mounds of her growing breasts. And then my little sister gave me a Cheshire grin.“You’re certainly spending a lot of time out and about lately. You sure you’re not dating anyone?”
   I shrugged.“None of your business.”
   Brooke stepped forward and put her hands on my chest, leaning in and taking another long sniff. She closed her eyes and got a look of utter arousal on her face, and I had to admit, my little sister looked damn sexy at that moment. But then she stood up straight again and opened her eyes.“Fuck, now I’m going to have to go upstairs and masturbate.”
   With that, my sister turned around and headed up the stairs ahead of me. I fought the impulse to stare at her jeans-clad ass on the way up, sighing in defeat when I failed.* * *
   “Dude, where were you on Friday?” Kenny asked as he sat down next to me at lunch on Monday morning.
   “What?”
   “I called you. Your sister said you were out.”
   I thought back… Friday… oh, yeah. Stacey had set me up with her friend, Mandy Lin, who went to a private school and whose dad owned some Taiwanese Electronics company. I shrugged, “I was out.”
   Kenny arched his eyebrow at me.“You on a date or something?”
   I shook my head. It wasn’t much of a date; we never left Mandy’s house. Stacey knew exactly what I was good for and Mandy had gone through a big dry spell. The tall, beautiful, older teen just needed to get laid without any of her friends or others in her social circle knowing about it. I’d pretty much been recruited to be an unpaid gigolo, which was fine by me. Mandy had a tight pussy and was an excellent cocksucker.
   Romance wasn’t on the agenda; but discretion was. I may not have been capable of being loyal to a girlfriend, but I certainly could keep my mouth shut and not blab about my conquests. Hell, I was pretty sure no one knew I’d been schtupping Stacey for the past few weeks, not even my best friends.
   “Told you, Kenny. I’m not talking about it.” I focused in on my food and then joined in on the table’s conversation. By now, the rest of my old crew was assimilating me back into their good graces. Abigail and Allison Sanders were sitting right across from me, flirting innocently along withtheir giggling and chatterbox comments. Recent couple Stephanie Vo and Sung Joon was on my right. And even Elaine Fukuhara was starting to talk to me again.
   Megan and Cassidy, while they didn’t sit next to me or anything, at least would talk with me. We’d seemed to settle into a non-hostile exes-type of relationship, although Cassidy still gave me puppy-dog eyes of longing every once in a while and Megan would occasionally stare into my eyes as if searching inside for someone she recognized.
   Even Adrienne didn’t seem overly angry with me. If we passed each other in the hallway, she would merely nod in greeting and then continue on her way. She would get a look in her eye similar to Cassidy’s on occasion, but for the most part she was handling things pretty well. If she was hurting inside, Adrienne was doing a very good job covering it up with her usual perky-friendly-flirty demeanor.
   And taking their cue from Adrienne, the rest of the cheerleaders and jocks similarly accepted me. Break-ups and cheating and drama were a way of life for them, and they rebounded much more quickly. Summer MacIntosh and I shared second period and our third period classes were next door to each other, so we’d actually walk between classes together and chat about whatever. And whenever Trevor Hansen or Jae Choi would pass me in the hall they’d offer their verbal “What up?” Even though I no longer took lunches with them, we all remained acquaintances or even casual friends.
   And then there was Donna. After lunch she literally bumped herself into me and then smiling, asked,“We on for this afternoon?”
   “Sure,” I replied breezily.
   “Hope you’ve stocked up on fluids. ’Cuz I’m feelin’ extra frisky today,” the curly blonde babe giggled.
   I LOVED Mondays.* * *
   On Thursday, while walking from second to third period with Summer, we passed Stacey going in the opposite direction. The willowy brunette flashed me a knowing smile, her soft brown eyes twinkling, and then continued on her way. I grinned, knowing that I was scheduled to visit her for our usual romp around the mansion.
   “Did Stacey Whitehouse just wink at you?” Summer asked with an amused expression on her face.
   I looked at Summer with surprise and shrugged.“I dunno. Ever since I broke up with Adrienne there’re a lot of girls throwing winks my way.”
   Summer chuckled.“You’re turning into a regular Playboy, Ben. With no girlfriend now, I wouldn’t be surprised if you were banging a bunch of different girls around the school.”
   I smiled and shook my head in the negative.“Wouldn’t that be nice? Right now I’m just trying to finish out the school year in peace. My grades this quarter are going to be REALLY important for college apps. Speaking of which, do you want to study together for the Modern Lit final?” I asked, referring to our second period class together. Finals week was next week.
   Summer nodded, sticking out her jaw thoughtfully. She brushed her fine blonde hair behind an ear and twinkled her blue eyes at me.“Sure. Gimme a call. Saturday, maybe?”
   I grinned.“I’ll see if I can fit it into my busy calendar,” I joked while miming a fucking motion with my hands.
   Summer laughed in amusement and turned towards her classroom. If only she knew I was serious.* * *
   After lunch, when the meal was finished but well before the bells rang, the Sanders twins were packing up their lunches and Abigail leaned forward, grabbing my attention.“Hey Ben?”
   “Yep?”
   Abigail looked at me intently while Allison’s expression mirrored her sister’s, who was older by two minutes. Abigail nodded her head off towards a more private space. “Can we… talk to you?”
   “Sure.” I stood up and so did the twins. Kenny gave me a weird look and I shrugged, not knowing what it was all about either.
   Coincidentally, we ended up the same alcove where Cassidy told me she didn’t want to get back together with me, and I leaned back against the concrete wall while facing the two cute, slightly underdeveloped 16-year-olds. Abigail and Allison were identical twins who usually wore identical outfits, today being baby T-shirts and jeans. Their dark brown hair was pulled into pigtails and they wore just a small amount of makeup. They stood 5’3” and looked very young from the way they both stared at the floor nervously. Heck, Brooke looked older than they did right now.
   I glanced back and forth between the two of them, waiting for one of the girls to speak up. After all, THEY had been the ones to ask for this little conference. But Abigail just looked nervous and scared and Allison finally had to prod her slightly-older sister with a finger to the ribs.
   “Hey!” Abigail protested and then looked back at me. “Well, Ben. Uh, we were kind of wondering… and I mean… we already asked Megan and Cassidy if it was okay… but we were kind of hoping… I mean, uh, are you busy on Friday?”
   I blinked twice.“Friday? As in… tomorrow?”
   Abigail’s face fell, absolutely certain that I had already made plans.
   “Wait, no, no, I’m not really busy.” I waved her off. I didn’t have anything set. True, I’d tentatively figured I’d give Donna a call and then I’d give her a few injections of sperm, but those weren’t firm plans. I arched an eyebrow and looked more intently at Abigail. “Are you asking me out on a date?”
   Abigail glanced at Allison for a moment before turning back to me.“Well, uh, yeah, Ben. Actually, we both are.”
   I blinked twice. The girls had dated sporadically. I wasn’t privy to the details, but while they’d double-dated together, I’d never heard of them going on a date together with just one guy. “Both of you?”
   Allison finally piped up.“C’mon, Ben. It’s not like you haven’t been on a date with two girls before.”
   “And we DID talk to Megan and Cassidy about this first,” Abigail reiterated. “We wanted to make sure they would be okay with us asking you out.”
   “So… uh…” Allison began nervously. “Will you go out with us?”
   My eyebrows furrowed. The LAST thing I needed was two more girls in love with me. And both girls paled at my hesitation. Gently, I said,“Girls, we’re friends…”
   Now they looked like they were going to start hyperventilating. So I decided to slightly change my approach.“I’d be happy to go out with you,” I said quickly.
   Their panic seemed to lessen but there were still nervous expressions on their faces. We all sensed the“but” coming. So I started, “But, I don’t want to lead you on. I’m not looking for any serious relationships right now. I’m not ready to jump into anything like that just yet.”
   Relieved, Abigail sighed,“Oh, don’t worry about that. We’re not looking for anything serious, either, Ben. We just want to go out on a date and relax before Finals. We know you. We like you. Going out with you won’t be as awkward as trying to go on a date with some other guy.”
   “Yeah, we’re friends. We just want to go out together and have some fun!” Allison chimed in, feeling encouraged.
   I shrugged. Why not?“Okay, what do you guys want to do? Just dinner and a movie? Or—”
   Abigail cut me off with a mysterious smile.“Just come pick us up at 6pm. We’ll make all the plans.”
   I glanced at Allison, who nodded in agreement.“We’ll take care of everything.”
   So taking a deep breath, I nodded and smiled.“It’s a date.”* * *
   Stacey had a little surprise for me that Thursday afternoon. I walked into the bedroom to find both her and Mandy Lin waiting for me, wearing slinky, expensive lingerie.
   The girls weren’t bisexual or anything. But they certainly masturbated and got themselves off watching me fuck the other’s brains out. After screwing them individually to screaming orgasms, I set them on all fours side-by-side and doggy-drilled them, swapping back and forth every few minutes before turning them around and cumming all over both their faces.
   The two of them both went to work orally reviving me after that. And if they accidentally touched each other while doing so? Well, they could live with it.
   Thursday afternoon turned out to be good practice for the following night.* * *
   “Ben, can I talk to you for a minute?”
   I looked over from where I was idly chatting with Emily Anderson before our fourth period class. My little sister Brooke and Emily’s little brother Perry were having some relationship problems with their impending separation for the summer, and we big siblings were having a little laugh at their expense.
   But Megan raised both eyebrows at me and almost nervously I excused myself from Emily. Megan and I stepped to the side and put just a little distance between us and the other students milling about and I asked,“What’s up?”
   Megan took a deep breath and stated,“You’re going out with the Sanders twins tonight.”
   “Yeah. Why? Is that a problem? They said they talked to you first.”
   “They did. It’s okay. It’s just…” Megan took another deep breath. “I thought you should know what they’re planning for tonight.”
   My eyebrows pinched inward.“Huh?”
   Megan sighed and glanced around. And in a secretive voice, she leaned in and said,“Look, there’s no easy way to put this. The girls want you to take their virginities.”
   My eyes flew wide open.“WHAT?”
   “Shh! Not so loud!” Megan hissed as she stepped forward and clamped a hand over my mouth. Several people stopped to glance over at us and Megan sort of grinned nervously at them while turning beet red. After a few seconds, she pulled her hand away and then shuffled us another few feet away fromany bystanders.
   “They always liked you, Ben,” Megan said quietly. “Even when you were dating me and Cassidy, they would pepper us with questions about what you were like and all. And she and I told them all the stories about how wonderful you were and what sex was like.”
   So that’s how my “reputation” got out. Again, I would never understand the double-standard where guys weren’t allowed to talk about their conquests but girls could spread the rumor mill like wildfire. I suppose it had something to do with guys “bragging” and girls just excited to inform their friends, but whatever the motives, people’s personal lives were made public knowledge.
   Megan saw me scowl and smirked.“C’mon Ben, it was allgood and you know it. Besides, haven’t you noticed how the Sanders twins have been actively flirting with you since Prom?”
   “Well…” I hedged. A LOT of girls had been flirting with me. “I just thought they were having some fun. They’re cute and they know I’d never take it the wrong way.”
   “Nuh-uh,” Megan shook her head. “You’d have been taking it theright way. You do make them horny. Anyways, the girls are convinced that you won’t be single and available for long. It’s taken them months to convince themselves that they’re ready for sex, and they finally worked themselves up to asking me and Cassidy just on Wednesday.”
   I frowned. This was a delicate situation. I knew just how precious a girl’s virginity was to her, and how it was always mentally built into this momentous occasion. I’d only had two virgins in my life: Dawn and Megan. Both girls were very important to me and my emotional feelings for them were part of what made those two occasions very special. “I’m not sure I can do that, Megan. I mean, I’m friends with the girls and all, but not like that. Don’t you think they should wait until they find the right guys?”
   Megan exhaled.“I thought so. But from the way Abbie and Allie were talking about it, you might do them more harm than good if you turn them down. You’ve got a reputation Ben, a reputation for sleeping with any girl that offers.”
   “I don’t!”
   “They think you do,” Megan shook her head. “And if you reject them, they’ll feel they’re theonly ones you rejected and it’ll destroy their self-confidence. They know they’re not the tallest or prettiest or have the biggest boobs. Their self-esteem isn’t that hot to begin with.”
   I buried my face in my palm and groaned.“Then what do I do?”
   Megan smiled and put her hand on my chest.“Just be gentle with them, Ben. You were MY first and I’ll never regret that.”
   I bit my lip. And in a worried voice, I moaned,“But this is their virginity, Megan.”
   Megan smiled and moved her hand up to my cheek.“You’re sweet, you know that, Ben? Underneath that dick-for-brain’s playboy exterior, there’s a good guy’s conscience somewhere.”
   I rolled my eyes.“Somewhere…”
   “Just be good to them, Ben.” Megan nodded.
   I sighed.“Do you know what their plans are?”
   Megan shook her head.“No, they didn’t tell us. Just that they wanted to have sex with you and they wanted to clear it with us. For all I know they’ve lined up a motel somewhere.”
   “Great,” I moaned sarcastically.
   Megan smirked.“Look on the bright side, Ben. Two cute, 16-year-old girls want you to fuck them. I’m sure you can handle that.”* * *
   I’m not usually one to dawdle, but I was five minutes late to the Sanders’ front door. That’s because I spent an extra five minutes sitting in my car parked on their sidewalk, contemplating what I was getting myself into.
   If I went through with this, there would be some consequences. There were always consequences. Before, I just didn’t care. Donna, Stacey, and Mandy were just hot chicks to me. There were no friendships to ruin and all were Seniors, destined to be gone in another few months. Any consequences wouldn’t last long.
   But this was Abigail and Allison Sanders. Perhaps this was just two girls wanting to rid themselves of their cherries with a guy they trusted on some level. Perhaps we’d all be able to stay friends afterwards like nothing had ever happened. But as I’d already figured out before, you can’t have sex with someone and NOT have it irrevocably change your relationship.
   But hey, I was just a male slut. And Megan did have a point. If I drew the line with them, the girls would forever wonder if they just weren’t good enough for me. No amount of argument would convince them it was truly because I valued their friendship over the sex.
   So with my dick already hard in my pants and ready for action, I walked up to the house and rang the doorbell. One of the twins opened it immediately.“You’re late! I started freaking out that you weren’t coming!”
   My eyes popped out of my sockets as I stared at the young woman before me. The girl had styled her hair and put on makeup that enhanced the edges of her baby face, aging her into her late teens. Her outfit was suitably grown up, a little black cocktail dress that clung to her body like her baggy jeans and T-shirts never did before. Some sort of push-up bra made her tits pop out and I blinked in amazement at the sight of the pretty girl before me.“Whoa…” I grunted.
   The girl started giggling as she watched me obviously ogling her, and she smiled and said,“You’re forgiven.”
   The other twin showed up a second later, dressed IDENTICALLY. Usually I could tell the girls apart, but with the makeup and clothing, I had yet to pick out the identifying marks. I was saved when the second twin grinned at her sister.“You were right, Abbie. He does like the outfits.”
   I glanced at the girl who I now figured to be Allison and stammered,“You two lookamazing.”
   “Thank you!” The twins said in stereo, and then the two girls went to collect their purses and make themselves ready to leave.
   I glanced around, looking for parental evidence, only to find that there was none.“Uh, shouldn’t I say hello or something to your parents?”
   “Oh, they’re not here,” Abigail waved me off. “They’re out of town visiting our Uncle. His wife just had a baby and they won’t be back until tomorrow.”
   I felt a lump settle into my throat.“They’re not here at all? Uh, do they even know you’re going out on a date?”
   Allison giggled.“Nope. We have the place ALL to ourselves tonight,” she grinned and then hooked an arm through my elbow. “Lucky timing, huh?”
   Well, that explained the location in the twins’ plan to lose their virginities. Moments later, Abigail hooked her arm through my opposite elbow. I shrugged and decided to just go with the flow. “So? Where to?” I asked.
   “You drive. We’ll give you all the directions you need.”* * *
   We wound up at a nice seafood restaurant. Nothing too outlandish, but someplace where both my jeans and the girls’ black cocktail dresses were acceptable. And I made quite the impression with my matching twins on each arm.
   Our waiter wasn’t much older than us and he winked at me while taking our orders. Abigail caught the wink and slyly asked for a glass of wine while batting her eyelashes at the waiter, but the guy just shook his head fractionally at her, and she decided to go for a Shirley Temple instead.
   I did my best to be charming and flirtatious, and the girls soaked up all my bad one-liners and too-obvious compliments like sponges, clearly happy for the attention. We all barely touched our food, and instead spent more time just enjoying being out at a nice restaurant together.
   When the check came, I paid it easily over the girls’ protests that THEY had asked ME out on a date. To be honest, I’d spent the last couple of months banging chicks but not going out on any dates, so I’d built up enough savings to not flinch at the expensive dinner.
   After all, it was a small price to pay for two teenage virginities.
   But after that momentary haggle over the check, both Abigail and Allison became increasingly anxious. And before we left the restaurant, the girls went into the restroom to“freshen up”.
   They were somewhat calmed down when they emerged, I assume from some form of reassuring conversation. And as we approached my car I swept my arm out and asked,“So what’s next on the agenda? Would you ladies like to go for a nice walk around the lake?”
   “No,” Abigail cut me off. “Take us home.”
   I blinked in surprise.“Did I do something wrong?”
   “Not at all,” Abigail shook her head, raising her eyebrows and giving me an intense look. “But we’d like to be at home for what comes next.” The weight in her voice left no doubt as to what she meant.
   I took a deep breath and returned the intensity of Abigail’s gaze. And very softly, I said, “You girls don’t need to do anything tonight. We’re friends and I enjoy just being in your company.”
   Abigail didn’t say another word. Instead, she simply moved right up into my personal space, wrapped her arms around my neck, and elevated up on her tiptoes so that her face could reach mine. And then she planted a very firm, very insistent kiss on my lips.
   She still had the cherry flavor of her Shirley Temple on her lips and in addition to the sweet taste, I felt a surge of hormones flood through me as this nubile young woman pressed her entire body against me. Her tongue briefly darted into my mouth, and then she pulled away with a big smile and sparkling eyes.
   I only had a moment to breathe before Allison was suddenly upon me, her kiss feeling just like Abigail’s and yet just slightly different. And by the time she pulled her tongue out of my mouth and licked my lips a final time, my knees had become rather wobbly.
   “Take us home, Ben,” Allison insisted.
   I fished my keys out of my pocket.* * *
   Things were quiet on the drive back to the Sanders home. Since Abigail had sat up front with me on the way to the restaurant, Allison got to sit up front on the return home. The younger twin kept her hand on my thigh for the entire drive, but both girls were silent the whole drive back, lost in their thoughts.
   The silence continued upon arrival. Allison let herself out the passenger side but Abigail let me open her door and take her hand when she exited the rear seat behind me. And then Abigail quickly led me into the house.
   Once inside, I was ushered into the girls’ bedroom, a space that was dominated by the side-by-side twin beds separated only by a nightstand. The bed on the left was dressed in pastel blue linens and the one on the right was in pastel green. And four hands pushed me into a sitting position on the blue bed.
   Allison attacked me then, throwing herself at my face with enough force to topple me onto my back while she leaned over me and kisses me with a ferocity I never would have guessed in the petite brunette.
   Abigail, on the other hand, seemed to have a more direct mind as I felt her hands frantically tugging at my jeans, attempting to figure out how to work the clasp and zipper before she started yanking downwards on the waistband.
   I lifted my hips to help Abigail’s disrobing efforts while wrapping my hands behind Allison’s head as I showed her everything I knew about french kissing. But a minute later, my neck suddenly went stiff and I was unable to kiss Allison any further when I felt my cock being swallowed by a hot little mouth.
   My sudden inertness and moan got Allison’s attention, and the slightly younger twin turned around and barked, “Abbie! No cheating! We were going to do that together!”
   “Mmph!” Abigail grunted before lifting herself free of my cock. “Couldn’t wait, Allie.” And then the older twin looked over at me. “Am I doing it right?”
   I groaned.“You’re doing great. Your first time?”
   Abbie (I found myself thinking of the twins by the nicknames they loved using) nodded and then resumed her experimental cocksucking. Allie went to go and challenge her sister for a moment, but I grabbed the younger twin and turned her head to me.“Let her. I’ve got something else for you to try first.”
   “What?” Allie asked with a smile.
   I grinned.“Take off your panties.”
   The petite brunette smiled, her brown eyes seeming to get lighter and brighter as she stepped off the bed and then snaked her panties down to her ankles from beneath her dress. Her shoes followed and then at my direction, the 16-year-old cutie was straddling my head and lowering her neatly-trimmed crotch to my face.
   “You’re going to love this,” I told her. And then I dove in.
   I was right. Allie loved it.
   In fact, Allie was so vocal in her appreciation of my cunnilingus that when she shrieked and came, Abbie left my cock and demanded a turn of her own. So like a wobbly newborn deer, Allie moved herself over so that she was half-seated on the bed next to my shoulder, with her legs dangling over the side.
   Abbie had similarly removed her panties and shoes, but when she went to lower herself onto my face, Allie told her to take off the rest of her dress so that she could see. Earlier, the hem of the cocktail dress had been draped over my head and effectively blocked the sexual act from outside view.
   Too turned on to be nervous, Abbie simply hoisted the dress over her head and flung the thin garment away. Without further prompting, she also reached behind her back and unsnapped her bra, tossing her final article of clothing away and leaving herself completely naked with a boy for the very first time.
   I was pleasantly surprised. I’d known the twins were late-bloomers and their bodies weren’t as developed as some of the other girls I’d been with. But Abbie’s breasts were healthy mounds that filled my hands when I palmed them and began lightly rubbing the pale pink nipples. The rest of her body was neither too skinny nor chunky, but simply slender in that youthful teenage way. And her buttcheeks were nice and firm as I used them to guide her crotch over my face.
   Just like Allie, Abbie went nuts when I started tonguing her twat. She seemed to especially enjoy it when I rubbed her tits while driving my tongue into her narrow slit, and then to my surprise, I saw another hand lowering into Abbie’s crotch and realized that Allie was actually fingering her twin’s clitoris.
   And then together, Allie and I worked over the older twin until Abbie’s little body practically exploded with the force of her climax. And then the young Sanders teen flopped over and groaned, “I am sooo going to like sex.”
   I grinned. At last we had come to the main event. My cock was hard and throbbing with need after bringing the girls each to orgasm and also getting a pleasant, although brief, cocksucking from Abbie. I ripped off my shirt to leave me as naked as they were, and with obvious lust in my eyes I looked at the two girls and growled,“Who’s first?”
   Nervously, Allie pointed at Abbie, who was still flat across the blue bed, panting from the exertion of her orgasm. I quickly moved myself on top of the cute teenager and bent to kiss her. She didn’t seem to mind that her own orgasmic fluids were on my lips, and she moaned happily as she felt my warm body moving over hers and my hot tongue pressing into her mouth.
   Meanwhile, Allie settled onto a chair that she brought between the two beds, sitting attentively as she looked wide-eyed at her two-minutes-older sister spreading her legs in anticipation.
   I moved my hips in between Abbie’s thighs, and automatically, I asked the confirming question I needed to make before every first encounter. “Are you protected?” I assumed they were since they’d been thinking about this for some time.
   Abbie’s eyes went wide but then she nervously shook her head. “Uh, no. We couldn’t ask our parents to get us prescriptions. There’s no way they’d allow us.”
   Startled, I winced and cursed,“FUCK!” Even though I KNEW the girls had been wanting to lose their virginities, I’d just assumed they’d be protected. But they weren’t and I grumbled, “I didn’t think to bring any condoms. Didn’t you girls know you could go to Planned Parenthood and get a prescription without parental consent?”
   “Really?” Abbie and Allie looked back and forth at each other.
   I nodded and then rolled off of Abbie.“Dammit. Okay, maybe we can do this some other time.”
   “No!” Abbie protested. “It HAS to be tonight! We only came up with this when we found out our parents were going out of town! We don’t know when we’ll get this chance again! And besides, we’re safe!”
   I arched an eyebrow.
   Abbie and Allie exchanged worried glances and then Abbie looked at me.“Really. Our periods are due in like three days. We’re safe.” And then I had my arms full of warm, naked girl as Abbie rolled onto me, rubbing her tits into my chest and grinding her crotch against my hip, leaking lubrication onto my thigh. Her skin was hot to the touch and she was certainly ready to go.
   “Please, Ben. Make me a woman,” Abbie husked as she kissed me fiercely.
   I groaned with indecision. Certainly, I wanted to get laid and sink my throbbing boner into some sweet, tender pussy. But the responsible part of me didn’t want to take any risks, especially with two girls I considered friends. It was almost like that “almost” first time with Megan.
   “You’re sure you’re safe?” I grunted.
   “Absolutely,” Abbie’s eyes glowed as she pulled me tightly against her.
   “Okay,” I acquiesced. I felt pleasure and lust shooting through my veins as the petite brunette rubbed her hot skin against me. And with a sudden burst of power, I rolled us back over so that Abbie was beneath me. We shifted just a bit to better align ourselves on the narrow bed and in the process, settled my cockhead into the groove of her tightly closed pussy lips. Oddly enough, I didn’t feel any obstructions.
   “No hymen?” I asked.
   Abbie blushed and glanced at Allie.“We, uh, found where our mom hides her vibrator.”
   I smiled and nodded. Dayna had popped Dawn’s and things were much easier than the time I needed to break Megan’s maidenhead. It was one less complication in taking Abigail and Allison’s cherries. And after I bent and gave Abbie a soft kiss, I pulled away and looked into her eyes. “Are you sure about this, sweetie? Last chance to back out. There’s no going back from this.”
   Abbie glanced over to her sister and the twins joined hands, Allie giving Abbie a firm squeeze. Then Abbie looked back at me and growled,“Do it.”
   I bent down and kissed her again, and as I did so, I slotted my cockhead in between her labia and firmly pushed. A moment later, I burst through the tight clench of her pussy lips and the young girl was filled by her first ever live dick.
   “AAAH!” Abbie yelped briefly and then almost immediately moaned. And with steady pressure I pushed all seven-and-five-eighths of my cock into the petite girl beneath me. Friggin-A she was tight!
   I kissed away the two teardrops that had formed in Abbie’s eyes as she stared off at nothing somewhere behind me. And the 16-year-old no-longer-virgin started breathing quickly while exclaiming in amazement, “Ohmigod, ohmigod, ohmigod!”
   “Shh, Abbie. Relax or you’re going to hyperventilate,” I soothed girl currently skewered on my big dick.
   “I just can’t believe it’s all in me!” Abbie gasped and squeezed the hand of her twin sister. “He’s in me Allie!”
   Allie just looked down at her sister’s crotch with wide eyes. “I can’t believe it’s all in you either, Abbie. I never thought it would fit.”
   “Well it does fit,” I chuckled as I pulled my cock out a couple inches and then slowly pushed it back in to the hilt. The girls’ enthusiasm was contagious.
   “Ooohhh…” Abbie sighed. “That was nice. Do it again!”
   This time I pulled back until just my mushroom head was still inside Abbie’s once-virgin pussy. And then I slowly pushed forward again, burrowing my way past the tight constriction of her tunnel, which wasn’t used to being stretched in this manner.
   “Ohmigod!” Abbie exclaimed.
   “That’s so cool!” Allie cheered.
   I stopped again when I was fully buried, then bent down to tenderly kiss Abbie’s lips. She moaned at my touch and released her sister to bring both hands to the back of my head, holding me tightly to her while her tongue came out to play. It felt so good kissing her that for a second my elbows wobbled where I was holding my torso up, preventing myself from crushing the girl beneath me.
   When I pulled my head back, Abbie still had her eyes closed and she whispered rapturously,“So this is what all the fuss is about…”
   “Yeah,” I agreed.
   “It feels so… intimate. You’re so warm and so close to me. You’re… you’re INSIDE me!” Her eyes opened and golden brown shone out.
   I chuckled.“You still haven’t even had the best part. Are you ready to fuck?”
   “Ooh, fuck me, Ben!” Abbie cheered.
   “Yeah, fuck her, Ben!” Allie agreed.
   I pulled back then, almost all the way out. And this time when I pushed in, it wasn’t slowly. With a firm grip on Abbie’s hips, I rammed my pelvis forward and thrust so hard into the young girl’s pussy that it literally took her breath away.
   “Ugh!” Abbie grunted and threw her head back, her jaw flapping around as she gasped for air. And by the time she managed to take a deep breath, I’d already pulled back and thrust forward, knocking the breath out of her once again.
   “Ugh, ugh, ugh,” Abbie started grunting while I pistoned my thick cock in and out of her tight tunnel. Her lips were quivering and her eyes were rolling around while I really began pounding myself into her. The young teen regained the ironclad grip on her sister’s hand, and she began moaning ecstatically as I overloaded her senses.
   But after a couple of minutes, Abbie started to get used to the sensations. She got control of her breathing and her body visibly relaxed. And presently she was able to turn her head to the side and gasp to her twin sister,“He’s fucking me, Allie. Ben’s fucking me! And it feels sooo good!”
   Allie just beamed, knowing her turn was next.
   I started to tire from the rapid in and out thrusting, so I left my dick fully embedded inside Abbie and switched to a circular motion, grinding my pelvic bone against her clit and carving my way around her pussy to help loosen it up. Abbie reacted immediately with a fresh batch of moans, and she began whimpering happily at the feelings I was causing in her.
   I pushed up on my arms, elevating my torso so that I could get a better view of the pretty girl laying supine beneath me. Her breasts sagged just a bit to the sides as she lay on her back. Her pale pink areolas were centered by eraser-sized nipples, and both globes jiggled enticingly with my every thrust. I just had to taste them, so I ducked my head and took a few licks and sucks at each tit before moving back up to refocus on getting the young girl off. I couldn’t cum until after I’d made sure Abbie was satisfied.
   Soon enough, I’d driven Abbie to the precipice of her first coital orgasm. And when I leaned down to her ear and husked, “Cum for me, Abigail,” I ground my pelvis against her clit and pushed her over the edge.
   “AAAAHHHH!!!” Abbie screamed as she came. Her feet planted onto the bed and she thrust her hips off the mattress. Her right arm was clasping me tightly to her chest while she squeezed her sister’s hand with her left.
   I was just about to pop myself, and groaning in agony, I grunted,“I should pull out.” I suited actions to words by slowly pulling back with my hips.
   But Abbie would have none of it. Her legs scissored behind my hips and tugged me fully into her pussy once more as she protested,“No! In me! I wanna feel it! Cum in me!” And as I felt the rippling of her pussy muscles start to calm down, I slammed my hips forward a final time and blasted away, squirting my tadpoles into her womb.
   Abbie’s eyes were wild as she began to return to Earth from her climax. She blinked rapidly and then a sharp gasp interrupted her labored panting. “Ohhh… I can feel it, Allie. I can feel him cumming inside me. It’s sowarm…”
   My ab muscles tensed again and I spat another glob of semen into Abigail Sanders’ no longer virgin pussy. And as my final dry heaves passed, I let the percolating glow of orgasm wash over me. I absolutely loved this feeling. I loved the feel of her warm body crushed beneath my chest. I loved the rapid cooling sensation on my hot, sweaty back. And I loved the simply radiant expression on Abbie’s face as she looked at me adoringly.
   Still squeezing Allie with her left hand, Abbie brought her right up to touch my face and stroke my cheek. I bent to give her a tender kiss, and then slowly I backed my still stiff rod out of her sodden pussy and flopped onto my back beside her.
   Together, we panted for air and stared at the ceiling to fondly recall our lovemaking session.
   But Allie was getting impatient.“Aww, you’re going soft!”
   “Just gimme a minute, Allie,” I wheezed.
   “I don’t know if I can wait a minute!” she whined. “Can’t you go faster?”
   I chuckled.“Well… if you help me…”
   Allie giggled.“How?”
   After a brief discussion that included the encouragement of her well-fucked older-by-two-minutes twin, Allie was soon bent over my lap slurping on my half-hard cock while I played with her titties. She was proving to be just as much of a natural cocksucker as her sister.
   Five minutes after that, on the green bed and in almost the exact same voice as her sister, Allie gasped,“He’s in me, Abbie! He’s in me!”
   I began to stroke my cock in and out of my second virgin twin of the last half-hour. And as I looked down at the rapturous expression on Allie’s face, I smiled and began to experiment. At present, I was regularly screwing Donna, Stacey, Mandy, and Abigail. Now Allison. By the time I was done, I fully intended to have another happy girl who would keep coming back for more.* * *
   After I squirted Allie’s womb full of sperm soshe could feel the inner warmth like Abbie, the twins reclined side-by-side on Allie’s bed, the green bed. Together, they lifted their feet onto the mattress and spread their thighs wide. Abbie already had my cum trickling out of her and Allie now was clenching her inner muscles in an attempt to replicate the same. It took a few minutes, but eventually we all saw the creamy white river dribble out of her stretched pussy.
   Allie dipped a finger into it and brought a glob of cum up to her mouth, tasting it experimentally. She made a face and then smacked her lips a few times.“Salty, but not… bad… Not good either, but not bad.”
   I grinned and watched Abbie do the same.“Hmm, I could handle this.” And then Abbie looked over at me. “So Ben? Guys really like it better if a girl swallows, right?”
   I shrugged.“Personally, I like it, yeah, but it’s not a requirement. I’m perfectly happy to squirt on your tits, or over your face.”
   Allie was the first to dismount the green bed and push me back to lie down across the blue bed. Abbie soon joined her and I suddenly had twin faces hovering over my cock. Allie lifted the half-hard rod and Abbie took a long lick up the side, causing me to shiver with delight. And then Allie grinned at me.“Teach us to swallow?”
   This was going to be a GREAT night.* * *
   The Sanders twins drained me of four loads that evening. Allie was still sucking on my cock at 10:30pm and whining that she wanted to feel me squirt inside her again. But it was getting late and I was bone tired. Allie was at least satisfied with a giggling shower where the three of us were happily squeezed together in the confined space.
   The girls then gathered up the sheets to be laundered and we all redressed.
   “When can we do it again?” Abbie asked excitedly. Without her makeup, she once again looked like a young girl instead of a Junior-class student nearing seventeen. But she clearly had the glow of a well-fucked young woman.
   “As soon as you girls get on the pill, we’ll do it as often as you want,” I shrugged.
   “Oh!!! We’ll go down to Planned Parenthood tomorrow!” Allie hopped excitedly and turned to her twin sister for confirmation.
   “Tomorrow’s Saturday,” Abbie drawled.
   “Well if they’re not open, we’ll try again Monday,” Allie insisted. “I wanna do that AGAIN!”
   I smiled at Allie’s enthusiasm. “Okay then. Call me sometime.”
   “Thanks, Ben!” The Sanders twins said in stereo. “You’re the best!”* * *
   I awoke Saturday morning feeling refreshed and rejuvenated. Good sex seemed to do that to me, rather than exhaust me.
   The day started off like any other Saturday. Mom made breakfast and the family gathered round to eat in physical proximity to each other. Mom and Dad were having a discussion about work stuff. Brooke wolfed her food down because she was meeting up with friends and with her boyfriend, Perry. And Eden and Emma were talking about, of all things, boys.
   “I’m telling you, Aidan likes you,” Eden insisted to her sister.
   “No he doesn’t,” Emma shook her head.
   “Does too! Michelle Sadeghi tried to kiss him and he just said ‘Eww’ and turned away. He’s holding out for you,” Eden insisted.
   Emma rolled her eyes.“Aidan just doesn’t likegirls yet. He still thinks we have cooties. Besides, he’s not that handsome. Sergio Lopez is WAY cuter. Now HE really likes kissing us.”
   Eden’s eyes popped open and she hissed. “Emma!” My sister’s eyes went wildly to our parents who were too busy with their discussion of work to notice. But I noticed and my eyebrows went up. Only a mouthful of bacon stopped me from saying something.
   After breakfast, the twins fled to their room. And it took me a minute to make up my mind over what I wanted to do, but in the end, I decided that I needed to be a big brother and go have a talk with them. Just hours before, I’d taken the virginities of a different pair of twin sisters and that knowledge made me dead certain about what boys wanted and the kinds of temptations my baby sisters would be facing in the coming years.
   It made me a little queasy just to think about it. I still remembered the rugrats sitting in their high chairs throwing food around. I remembered them snuggling up to me for warmth and comfort while watching Disney movies that still frightened them. I couldn’t even IMAGINE them having sex or anything remotely in that direction. They were still in sixth grade!
   One of the twins asked,“Who is it?” when I knocked. And when I announced myself the voice came back, “What do you want?” It was probably the very first time in our lives that the twins hadn’t immediately invited me in. Were they growing up faster than I’d been expecting? Weren’t they at least supposed to wait until thirteen? Brooke didn’t become evil until fourteen at least.
   “I just want to ask you both something,” I said through the door.
   “Ask away,” came the muffled response.
   I sighed.“I don’t think you want me asking this question where Mom and Dad could hear me.”
   The door opened immediately and Eden stepped back, looking chagrined. I arched an eyebrow and stepped inside, moving over to one of the desk chairs while both girls sat on the Emma’s bed, the lower of their bunk beds.
   With the tone of a concerned parent, I asked,“Are you girls kissing boys already?” I was afraid of the answer, given that Dawn and I hadn’t had our first kiss until we were fifteen. I knew Brooke was already making out with Perry at fourteen, but still, wasn’t eleven a little too young?
   The twins looked at each other nervously for a second before looking at me. They’d never really lied to me and I hoped they didn’t start now. Finally, Eden said to her sister, “I TOLD you not to say anything at the breakfast table.”
   Emma blanched,“It was an accident.”
   “Relax, relax,” I cut in. “I’m not mad. I just need to know.”
   The girls blushed and then Eden nodded the affirmative.“But just a couple times. I fell down on the playground and Sergio Lopez — he’s a boy in our class — went to help me up. He was holding me in his arms and then before I knew it, he’d kissed me.”
   “What kind of kiss?” I asked immediately, anger creeping into my voice. My thoughts drifted to Adrienne and her older brother raping her when she was the twins’ age.
   Eden frowned.“What do you mean what kind? On the lips of course.”
   “Did he use his tongue?”
   “Tongue! Eww, why would he do that?” Eden screwed up her face.
   I shook my head, not wanting to put ideas into their head.“Nevermind. It IS gross and slimy if a guy doesn’t know what he’s doing.”
   “Oh, okay,” Eden nodded as if boys not knowing how to do things made perfect sense to her.
   I turned my gaze to Emma.“You too? Didn’t you say Sergio kissed you?”
   Emma nodded.“When Eden didn’t stop him, he kissed her a few more times at school. Then one day, I think he thought I was her and he just kissed me. It was nice.”
   “How did it make you feel?”
   She shrugged.“I dunno. Kinda funny. A little wet. I don’t know what the big deal is. It wasn’t that great.”
   I sighed, thinking back to my own days as an 11-year-old. At least it seemed like the twins hadn’t gotten their hormones yet, which was a good thing for me. “He hasn’t done anything else to you two, has he? He hasn’t put his hands on you?”
   The girls both shook their heads in the negative and I relaxed visibly. I thought of Adrienne’s brother again, and as I looked at my own baby sisters’ childlike bodies, I couldn’t imagine what perversions had to go through Adam Dennis’ head to make him do what he did. Then Eden piped up. “Anyways, Sergio stopped after a few weeks. Now he’s kissing Vicky Tan. We KNOW people onlykiss when they like each other. And there aren’t any boys we really like enough to do that with.”
   I smiled for the first time since hearing that my baby sisters had started kissing boys.“Okay. Well you tell me if Sergio or anyone else tries anything on you two. I’ll kick the little twerp’s ass so badly he won’t be able to sit down for a week.”
   The twins grinned and giggled. And then Eden asked me in a dead serious voice,“So you won’t get mad if we kiss other boys? If we really like them, I mean.”
   “If you like them,” I shrugged. “Just… keep it to kissing, okay? If you have ANY questions about anything else, you know you can come ask me, right?”
   “Right,” Emma nodded. “We also talk to Brooke about this stuff. She’s a girl and understands better.”
   I nodded.“Well, if there’s anything Brooke can’t answer, you let me know. I AM older and well, I, uh…” I stammered nervously around how far to explain to my little sisters. “Well, I’ve just got more experience than Brooke does, alright.”
   The twins shrugged and looked at each other.“Want to play games with us? It’s been a while since we played Uno.”
   I smiled. THERE were the sixth-graders I remembered.“Sure.”* * *
   After puttering around with my little sisters for a while, I gathered my books and hopped into my car. Fifteen minutes later, I pulled up outside Summer MacIntosh’s house. 11am. I was right on time.
   No one answered the first time I rang the doorbell. No one answered on the second one either. I was just about to give up and had already turned away to leave when I heard the click of a latch and the door opened, revealing Summer wearing just a thin pair of pajama pants with a matching sleep tank-top that was stretched to the limits around her fake breasts. Her eyes were red and her gaze bleary as she looked at me and asked a confused,“Ben? What are you doing here?”
   My eyebrows furrowed and I held up my Modern Lit binder.“11am right? Studying for the final?”
   “Ohhh, SHIT, right,” Summer spat and shook her head. “Uh, come on in.” She left the door open and headed into the house.
   Startled for a moment, I stepped inside and closed the door behind me. I saw Summer heading up the stairs and stared at her perky buttcheeks, which were nicely cupped by the thin pajama pants with no sign of any panties. Biting my lip, I tried to will my gaze away. Clearly, the girl was upset and the last thing she needed was me coming on to her.
   Summer had a spacious bedroom with soft carpet and plenty of open floor space. Her desk was completely covered with books, papers, and a late-model desktop PC. Instead, it appeared that she studied on the floor from the wooden writing surface, books, and various cushions that were spread out between her bed and the desk. Flopping to her knees, the beautiful blonde futzed around with the papers and binders until she got a red one marked“Modern Lit”. Flustered, she glanced around and then waved me towards the desk saying, “Uh, pull up a chair.”
   Instead, I knelt down beside her and gently reached out to touch Summer’s shoulder. “Hey, you don’t look so good. If this is a bad time, we don’t have to do this. I’m perfectly cool with rescheduling or we can even just skip studying together.”
   Summer grimaced and frowned.“No. I’ve GOT to study sometime. I need to pull up my grade in this class.”
   I chuckled.“You already got into UCLA. What does this class matter?”
   She looked up at me with red-rimmed eyes, her voice pained.“It MATTERS if I FAIL! I need at least a ‘D’, Ben. You’re already cruising through the class. I doubt you could drop to a ‘B’ if you tried. But me? If I fail this I could get my admission revoked and then what? What the fuck do I do then? Huh?” Her voice was elevating. “As if my life isn’tfucked up enough already?”
   My hand on her shoulder turned into more of a grip as I held her and looked the pretty girl in the eyes. Her irises were a dull blue and she looked saddened beyond measure. I moved my face right into her line of sight and held the girl’s gaze, looking intently into her eyes and holding my stare until I was sure I had her attention. And in a gentle voice, I asked, “Summer, what’s wrong? What happened?”
   Her jaw quivered, her nose twitched, and all at once Summer burst into tears. I was ready for her when she flung herself at me, crushing herself into my chest while sobbing uncontrollably. I rocked back on my heels and held her tightly, stroking her back and whispering soothing sounds to try and calm her down.
   It took two minutes of uncontrolled bawling before she regained enough control to sniffle and moan,“Jae broke up with me last night! He’s… he’s…” she sniffled. “He’s getting back together with Ji-hyun!”
   I winced. All three of them were going to UCLA the following year. I’d assumed that since Summer and Jae were at least going to the same college, they’d be able to continue their relationship. Apparently Summer had thought the same thing. But we were both wrong. “I’m sorry,” I soothed while continuing to stroke her back. Inevitably, I felt that she wasn’t wearing a bra beneath the skimpy tank top.
   The beautiful blonde sobbed in my arms for another few minutes, shuddering every so often and clutching herself to my shoulders. Eventually, she got her crying under control and I spotted a tissue box. Releasing her so that she could sit back on her heels, I darted over and retrieved the box, holding it out to her.
   Still trembling, Summer dabbed at her eyes and blew her nose, wadding up three tissues before dropping the box to the ground next to her. And then she bent forward, planting her hands on the floor in her kneeling position and hanging her head. Her golden hair cascaded forward over her eyes and the dark roots formed a line on her scalp. The position also made the neckline of her tank top fall away from her chest, revealing those glorious D-cup implants almost down to the nipples.
   Taking a deep breath, I averted my eyes and instinctively reached forward, brushing her hair out of her face.
   Summer looked up at me as I brushed her bangs back and tucked them behind her ear, her blue eyes brilliant in the morning light. She blinked a few times as her irises went wider. Her chest heaved as she took a deep breath. And then she pounced.
   I had no time to react before Summer tackled me onto my back and planted her lips onto mine. I struggled against her automatically for a half-second before I realized I was being kissed and not attacked. And then both of Summer’s hands were in my hair as she crammed her tongue down my throat and moaned heartily.
   I kissed the beautiful teenager back with a passion to match hers for about six seconds, groaning and moaning all the while. But then my conscience kicked in and I grabbed her head, pulling her off of me.“Summer, no! You’re hurting. This isn’t right.”
   “Shut up, Ben,” she growled and then kissed me again, slamming me back against the floor of her bedroom. And this time, my conscience stayed dormant for eleven seconds of pleasurable oral bliss.
   I pulled her head up again and stared my friend right in the eyes.“Summer, wait. Think for a second. Your boyfriend just broke up with you and you’re very vulnerable right now. I don’t want to take advantage of you.”
   “Look around, Ben,” Summer challenged with her eyes. “Does it look like YOU’RE taking advantage of ME?”
   “But… but…” I protested.
   “Please, Ben?” Her voice cracked and Summer looked ready to cry again. “Just make me feel good. Make me feel wanted. You’re good at that, I know. The girls all say you’re incredible at it. Just give me pleasure and drown this pain away, okay?”
   “Summer, I—”
   She sighed and ripped her tank top over her head. The moment those glorious tits were bared to my gaze, I knew I was a goner. My eyes went wide and my jaw waggled up and down a few times. And when Summer lowered a turgid nipple to my mouth, I felt my lips closing happily around the teat and I gave in to the lust.
   The California blonde moaned and held my head while I nursed at her tits. And then she dismounted my waist just long enough to rip off her pajamas and thong panties, leaving her tanned and fit body completely in the nude. She then began tugging on my shorts while I pulled my own shirt over my head, and in less than thirty seconds we had me just as naked, with my thick cock rising into the air.
   Summer quickly straddled my waist and fisted my cock, hurriedly bringing it up and aiming her crotch at the meat pole. She was rather in too much of a hurry, frantically trying to cram the thing into her pussy, even though her vaginal lips were still tightly closed and I didn’t feel much moisture on my tip. An alert went off in my head that Summer was trying to fuck me out of anger and frustration with being dumped and not out of true arousal.
   “Hey, don’t force it,” I tried to say soothingly. “We don’t have to do this.”
   “SHUT UP BEN!” She was in tears as she started cramming my mushroom head almost painfully through her semi-dry tunnel. “Doesn’t anybody want me?”
   Grimacing against the friction, I reached forward and grabbed her hips.“C’mere,” I growled and yanked her towards my face. She was pulled off balance at first, but eventually the hot blonde scooted forward and lowered her crotch to my face. My tongue darted into her vaginal channel and I swiped all the way up until I wrapped my wet appendage around her clit, andthe teenage girl on top of me shuddered and moaned.
   My brain went into auto-pilot at that point. Summer was right, sex was what I did. Sex was what I was good at. Some guys are natural football players. Some guys are math whizzes. I just had a lot of sex. It was my“thing”.
   Still in a hurry, Summer was ready to dismount my face and re-mount my cock after just a few minutes of tongue-work. But I held fast to her hips and bore down, quickly sending the girl over the edge into orgasm before she even realized it, screaming and writhing as if in agony while the overwhelming sensations took control of her mind.
   When she stopped screaming and I felt her thighs go limp, I thought for a brief moment that Summer would just fall away and stop everything. And she did sigh and stop moving as she hung her head down, her face a mask of sorrow as I looked up at her between her prodigious tits.
   I felt so sorry for Summer. Clearly she was hurting and even an orgasm hadn’t washed away the pain. I knew it would not be right for me to now flop her onto her back and start fucking the daylights out of her. And if we stopped now I could accept it. My dick would complain if giving Summer an orgasm stopped us from having full intercourse, but my conscience would be satisfied.
   Sex can happen for a lot of reasons. Sometimes I had sex out of affection and love, like with my girlfriends. Sometimes I had sex just for pure recreational pleasure, like with Donna and Stacey. And sometimes I even had sex for whatever reasons had motivated Abbie and Allie to lose their virginities. But I’d never been a part of revenge sex or hate sex.
   Until now.
   Summer slid off my face and down until her now-wet crotch was over my hips. She bent over, grabbed my head, and planted a fierce kiss on me that rivaled one of Adrienne’s nuclear liplocks. She groaned through her teeth and sniffled while a few tears dropped onto my face, but then with a look of determination she pulled away, elevated my cock in her hand, and then impaled herself to the hilt in one thrust.
   I grunted in absolute pleasure when I felt that tight pussy surrounding my dickflesh. Her humping motion also thrust those tits right into my face, and eagerly I began lapping at them with lips and tongue. And then we FUCKED.
   Angrily, Summer grunted and moaned as she drove her hips down onto me with every ounce of strength in her body, roughly pounding me into the unyielding surface of her bedroom floor.“Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck me, Ben! Ungh!”
   “Mmph!” I grunted around a mouthful of tit, my hands gripping her tight ass and using it to yank her lighter body against my pelvis. And without restraint, Summer and I slammed ourselves against each other over and over and over again until she cried out in orgasmic ecstasy.
   “Fu-! Fu-! Fu-! Fu-! Oh, FUCK! Aaaaaahhhh!” the hot blonde teenager screamed as I felt her inner muscles clamp down around me as she gushed waves of hot nectar into our joining.
   Summer was an incredible fuck. She flung herself at me with reckless abandon, and the sight of her naked, sweaty body glistening in the morning light with big balloon tits wobbling enticingly had me as aroused as I’d ever been in my life. Lost to the lust, I lunged my hips off the bed as I fucked her and when she lost the rhythm to let her climax crash over her, I growled and flipped us over, desperate to keep up the intense pace.
   “Fuuuuck meeeee!” She wailed.
   Delirious with pleasure, Summer just flopped onto her back and spasmed while the orgasm short-circuited her brain. My thick dick re-entered her easily and I quickly resumed my frantic pumping, now my turn to bruise her hips against the carpet. I watched her eyes twitching epileptically and after a few seconds, her head simply rolled to the side and she started drooling.
   I didn’t care. I wanted even deeper. I wanted tighter. Summer was a hot cunt and I wanted my pleasure. So I reached down and grabbed her legs, hoisting them up and backwards until I hooked her knees over my shoulders and I folded the teenage blonde beneath me while I fucked down into her juicing snatch.
   She orgasmed a second time, which seemed to wake her up as she sucked in some of her spittle and turned her head upright once more. And with blue fire in her eyes, Summer became aware again and she resumed humping her hips up at me.
   “Harder, Ben,” she urged. “Fuck me… deeper… harder! Make me cum again! Drown me in orgasms! Uh! Uh! Uh!”
   “Urggh!” I grunted as I willed even more energy into my legs and arms, my muscles starting to burn with the effort of fucking all-out and non-stop.
   Summer’s mouth was gaping wide open as she panted and stared at me. She had a desperate hunger in her eyes, and she pleaded, “More… Harder…”
   I winced. I was running out of steam and I was already going at full throttle. There was an apology in my eyes and Summer caught it, frowning as she desperately craved even more but realized I didn’t have it in me.
   “Fuck my ass,” she groaned while her irises flared.
   My eyebrows went up.
   “Fuck my ass,” she repeated and reached up to grab her own legs by the ankles, holding them back even as she continued humping her pussy against my cock.
   I paused from my drilling of her cunt, immediately thankful for the chance to catch my breath. And as Summer tightened her grip and rotated her hips back, I pulled free of her sodden pussy and re-aimed my saturated cock an inch or so lower. Her position on her back while stretching her legs opened up her anus just a bit, and after settling my mushroom head against her back door, I gripped Summer’s hips and thrust in.
   She winced in pain and gasped as I popped through the sphincter, losing grip on one of her ankles for a second before grabbing it once again. And then with steady pressure I pushed forward and sank my dick inch by inch fully up her backside. Summer’s jaw was quivering once I was totally up her ass, and in tenderness I briefly leaned down and pecked her on the lips.
   Summer released her ankles and wrapped her legs over my shoulders, reaching up with her hands to touch my cheeks as she kissed me back. And then she dropped her head onto the pillow and growled.“Fuck me, Ben. Hard!”
   So I fucked her.
   Still tapped of energy, I threw everything I had left into fucking her ass. She was hellishly hot and tight and Summer fucked me back with just as much intensity. It wasn’t about pleasure anymore for her. She just wanted to be reamed and impaled and forcefully taken, and I did my best to satisfy.
   “Fuck my ass, Ben! Rape my ass! Isn’t it hot? Isn’t it tight? Use me and hurt me and spunk your load deep inside me!”
   Her nasty words weren’t helping my endurance. And after a couple of minutes, I hit my limit and started spewing my load into Summer’s bowels. I’d never felt a more blissful release as I could finally stop pumping and just hold myself balls deep up her ass while ejecting wad after wad of cum.
   “Yesss!” Summer hissed. “I feel it! I feel it in my ass! Ohhh…”
   My hips jerked and I fired another wad.
   When we were done, Summer’s hips dropped back onto the mattress, my dick still embedded in her asshole. My head collapsed onto her chest, nicely supported by her silicone pillows. And together we panted and gasped for oxygen while the beautiful bottle-blonde held me tenderly to her breasts.
   It was a long time before either of us said anything. But when she did find her voice, Summer just sighed and said,“Thank you, Ben.”
   I pulled my now limp dick out of her abused rectum, flopping wearily onto my back. Every muscle in my body ached and burned from the exertion.
   Summer rolled onto her side away from me and re-started crying.* * *
   Eventually, Summer got a hold of herself and I suggested a shower. She made no objection when I helped her in and joined her in the tub. There was a built-in bench and I sat her down, gently washing her spectacular body. She sighed happily while I shampooed her hair and massaged her scalp. She moaned when I rubbed her back and shoulders. And she giggled when I soaped up her tits. I tried not to get TOO carried away; but hey, I was still just a guy.
   We actually did study for about an hour and a half, going over all the important material and stuff I thought was most likely to show up on the final. I quizzed her to see how much she remembered and then we went back over the material she was fuzzy on. She made sandwiches and we snacked along the way.
   I’d started to get uncomfortable on the floor after the first half-hour and so Summer relocated us onto the bed where we lay face-down side-by-side, our heads towards the foot of the bed. Summer looked unbearably cute wearing a new set of pajama pants and tank top, her feet kicking in the air as she pored over the notes in front of her.
   And after that first hour and a half, her focus started to drift and we both found that we weren’t concentrating on the work quite so much. I was admiring her beauty and idly thinking about the incredible fuck we’d shared; and from the little smiles and glances Summer was giving me she was thinking likewise.
   So it wasn’t much of a surprise when Summer leaned over and almost experimentally tasted my lips. She pecked me twice more before reaching a hand up to my cheek and kissing me more firmly. I started to heat up and felt the flush of arousal in my cheeks, and when I rolled Summer onto her back and pushed my tongue into her throat, I got no objection.
   This time, we made love slowly and tenderly. There was no urgent thrusting and no growls of“fuck me”. We simply sighed and moaned and groaned our way to a satisfying mutual climax, and Summer’s eyes glittered as she felt my cum pouring into her pussy.
   It was a beautiful moment. But unfortunately, once we were done, I watched Summer’s lower lip quivering as the tears re-formed in her eyes. And then she turned away and started crying quietly, even as my dick slowly deflated inside of her.
   Once again, Summer pulled herself together. But this time, she decided she wanted to be alone with her thoughts for a little while. We shared a tender kiss at the front door, along with a promise to get together Wednesday afternoon for a cramming session before the final. And then I left.* * *
   The last Monday at school began normally, if with a little more tension than usual. Finals were scheduled for Wednesday through Friday, and these last two days of regular classes were pretty intense for all the students. For the graduating Seniors, most of their finals were scheduled early on Monday and Tuesday, with only the occasional junior elective set later in the week.
   Donna caught me just before classes started and elicited my promise to come visit her this afternoon so that we could both blow off some steam. I grinned and said,“I expect you to blow more than just steam. And I intend to blow off quite a bit myself.”
   The busty blonde giggled and shook her ass at me as she left.
   Stacey twirled up to me between first and second periods and asked if I could help her“study” on Tuesday afternoon. I knew she didn’t need to study since all her finals were on Monday and Tuesday, so what she really wanted was a celebratory fuck for the end of her academic career. For me, it was the last day before MY finals and the last opportunity to really cram, but I promised the willowy brunette a round or two.
   And then during the next period, Modern Lit, I saw Summer for the first time since Saturday. She smiled shyly at me before taking her seat. But throughout the class she seemed lost in her own world and never glanced back at me. I smiled and nodded. I’d done what I was good for, we’d had one day of sex, and neither of us would look back. We were friends, nothing more, and I sighed in relief that things weren’t going to be awkward or different between us.
   Or so I thought.
   After class, Summer hurried over to me and slipped her hand into mine, squeezing it firmly. Surprised, I looked over while she batted her eyes at me, her brown eyebrows and blue eyes making her gaze quite intense.
   “Uh, Summer,” I stammered nervously. “I don’t know if it’s such a good idea that we—”
   “I’m not looking to date you, Ben,” Summer shook her head and stepped in close to me and touched my cheek. To any outside observer, we would appear to be romantically involved and having an intimate conversation.
   Confused, I arched an eyebrow.“Then, what’s all this?”
   “I just…” She trailed off and then sighed. “You’re my friend, right, Ben?”
   I nodded.“I’d like to think so.”
   “And you enjoyed Saturday?”
   I smiled.“It WAS very nice. Well,naughty and nice.”
   “It was. But I’m not ready to jump into anything just yet.” Summer took a deep breath. “I’m still heartbroken over Jae. And besides, I’m graduating soon and going off to UCLA. So we have no future together.”
   I nodded in agreement but said nothing further.
   “I just…” Summer trailed off again, her eyes darting left and right as she searched for the right words. And then she just squeezed my hand and touched my face again. “I just feel… better… when I’m holding your hand. It’s not love, Ben. I just don’t feel that way about you. And…I’m sorry, but I’m not sure if I want us to have sex again.”
   She frowned and I shrugged. While I certainly wouldn’t mind having sex with the beautiful blonde bombshell, I’d live if I didn’t. I certainly had other partners lined up already. “That’s okay, Summer. I’m not asking you to.”
   She smiled.“It’s just… comforting, to have you next to me. Can you do that Ben? Just be with me for a little while? I know webarely know each other and there’s only a few days of school left. But it just makes me feel better when I can hold your hand. Maybe we’d be nothing more than that, but just… can you let me lean on you a bit?”
   I smiled softly.“Sure. I can do that.”
   Summer brightened visibly.“Really?”
   “Of course.” I nodded firmly.
   Summer sighed and touched my face again. Delicately, she leaned up and pecked me on the lips. And sighing softly, she murmured,“You’re a good guy, Ben. I wish I’d known you before this quarter.”
   I shrugged.“Better late than never.”
   Hand in hand, we walked off to our next destinations.* * *
   Summer was waiting for me after third period. She didn’t have a final right then so she decided to escort me to my next class. And more than a few people were whispering and gossip-mongering about us as we passed.
   Megan shared my fourth period and her eyes narrowed as we approached. And once Summer bid me goodbye with a gentle hand-squeeze, my ex-girlfriend walked over to me.“Are you dating Summer MacIntosh now?”
   I shook my head and held up my hands defensively.“No, her boyfriend Jae just dumped her and she’s feeling really vulnerable and lonely. She just wants a friend to lean on right now. She graduates on Saturday and there’s no future between us. I’m just trying to help her out.”
   “You want to help yourself into her pants, don’t you?” Megan gave me a stern look.
   I shook my head.“Honestly no. It’s not about that.”
   At Megan’s disbelieving stare, I sighed and admitted, “Summer and I already… well, we’ve had sex in the past.” Megan didn’t need to know howrecently in the past.“But I don’t think that’s in our future. I’m really just trying to be her friend.”
   My ex-girlfriend flashed a jealous green in her eyes for a moment, but then she calmed. Her mouth a hard line, she shrugged and turned away.“Okay. If you say so.”* * *
   After fourth period, Summer came and found me before getting into the lunch line. And once we picked up our food, I stayed with her all the way to her usual lunch table. Candy and Trevor looked up at us with curious expressions. Mizuho leered at me with lust in her eyes. And Lynne seemed quite pleased to see me again.
   I was forced to try and eat with my left hand since Summer seemed dead set on maintaining her grip on my right hand, and the one time I pulled my hand away to adjust my food, Summer’s skin seemed to pale almost immediately and her jaw quivered until we re-established our handhold on top of the table and the color returned to her cheeks.
   I felt Summer stiffen up before I ever saw Jae. Her sudden deathgrip on my hand got my attention and I turned to see Jae walking past with Ji-hyun Jeon on his arm. The new couple stopped and stared at us for a moment while Summer paled again. But when I squeezed her hand, Summer set her jaw and raised her head high, announcing to her ex-boyfriend that she would be just fine without him.
   Jae looked at the two of us holding hands and glared at me for a moment, but then he turned and the Korean pair walked away.
   “Summer…” Adrienne’s voice sounded off beside us. She was late in arriving and stood next to the table while staring towards a retreating Jae. “Is there something you’re not telling me?” She asked her friend in a weak tone.
   Summer turned around with a smile after facing up to Jae for the first time since their breakup, but the smile vanished when she saw the hurt look on Adrienne’s face. I knew quite well the social laws against dating a friend’s ex while the wound was still fresh. “This isn’t what it looks like,” Summer stammered in a panic.
   Adrienne looked to where Summer was still holding my hand and asked coldly,“And what does it look like?”
   Summer’s jaw quivered. “Ben and I are not dating or anything. He’s just being a friend to me, nothing more.” There was a warbling plea in the blonde’s tone. “With everything going on with Jae, I just needed a little support.”
   Adrienne sat down on Summer’s other side and looked around the table. “We’re your friends, too, Summer.” Her own tone had softened considerably. “You know we’re here to support you.”
   The California blonde smiled at her friend.“I know. And thanks. But Ben was there for me this weekend when I needed it most.” She beamed at me and squeezed my hand again.
   Adrienne looked skeptically at me. And in a gruff voice filled with skepticism she growled,“You just in this to get into her panties, Ben?”
   I frowned and shook my head. I never did anything JUST to get into a girl’s panties. It hurt that someone I’d loved could think that about me. Although perhaps I couldn’t blame her. I DID after all have a pretty poor track record.
   Summer smiled and squeezed my hand while we exchanged a look. Yes, we had fucked. But we both felt that was a one-time thing and Adrienne didn’t really need to know. Summer wasn’t trying to swoop her friend’s ex-boyfriend. I looked Adrienne in the eye and insisted, “I’m learning to be supportive in ways other than sexual.”
   Candy and Mizuho giggled and looked at me doubtfully. Adrienne gave me a knowing wary look that clearly expressed her skepticism. I blanched and said,“I’m trying. I’m really trying. Really, I just want to be here to support Summer for this week.”
   Adrienne sighed and nodded, shaking her head slowly in mild-disbelief.“Well, better late than never.”* * *
   I felt lasers boring in the back of my head after lunch and I looked around to see that Abigail and Allison were glaring at me as Summer and I passed my old crew’s table. Wincing, I excused myself from Summer for just a minute and headed over.
   Cassidy caught the look of the twins and immediately leaned in and started whispering to them. I approached and then nodded my head away from the table. Abbie and Allie glanced at Cassidy as if in disbelief and then got up and followed me to a more private area.
   “What are you doing with HER?” Abbie seethed at me, rolling her eyes towards Summer.
   “We’re just friends,” I explained. “Her boyfriend dumped her and she needed a shoulder to cry on.”
   “You fuck her?” Allie asked with venom in her eyes.
   I sighed.“I don’t talk about that sort of thing, remember? You wouldn’t want me going around blabbing about you two, now would you?”
   “That’s not a ‘no’.”
   “I’m just trying to be her friend until she graduates, okay? She’s moving on to UCLA and we’rejust friends,” I stated. “Look, what do you girls really want from me?”
   Allie was the first to pipe up.“You promised we could have sex again!”
   “Did you guys get on the pill?”
   “We’re going to the clinic this afternoon,” Abbie explained.
   “So call me after your periods. Maybe next week or something. I’m going to camp for all of July, but I’ll be back and we’ve got all next year. Okay? Now stop worrying about Summer. She’s just a friend. Got it?”
   Frowning, Abbie and Allie nodded reluctantly. I stepped forward and hugged both girls, pecking them on top of their heads due to their shorter heights, and then returned to Summer.
   “What was that all about?” the California blonde asked.
   I shook my head.“Nothing. The girls are my friends and they’re just a little jealous I’m spending all this time with you.”
   “Ben, I don’t want to take you away from your friends,” Summer sighed. “You should go back—”
   “No, no,” I squeezed her hand. “I’m here for you, however you need me, okay?” I smiled. “I owe you that much for a wonderful Saturday.”
   “You don’towe me anything, Ben,” Summer looked at me sharply. “I wanted it just as much as you.”
   “Poor choice of words,” I grimaced and then held Summer’s hands in my own and stared into her eyes. “Whatever else happened on Saturday, Summer, we made love, really made love. And that bonded us in a way that can never be undone. I’m not in love with you, but I WANT to do what’s right.I want to do whatever I can to see that you’re happy. Okay?”
   She smiled and squeezed my hand back.“Okay.”* * *
   I actually cancelled my rendezvous with Donna that afternoon to be with Summer. It was my Monday, but I had more important things to do. And so fully clothed, Summer and I curled up on her bed, me spooned behind her, holding her tenderly while she sobbed and trembled.
   Her clothing wasn’t very thick and it was very arousing to be in such an intimate position with a sexy young blonde. At one point, she pulled my arm tightly around her breasts so that I was cupping one firm boob. But at the same time, holding a crying woman while she’s heartbroken over another guy isn’t the biggest turn-on. So my pecker stayed in check and I stayed true to my promise not to make any moves on her.
   I was just there to hold her, a warm body she could lean on, to be there for whatever Summer needed. It wasn’t my place to push her for anything more than what she wanted, and my experience at being a non-aggressive nice guy was serving me well at holding my hormones in check.
   So she cried, and I held her. She bitched about Jae, and I listened. And she cried again. After about an hour, Summer turned around in my grasp and blinked away the last of her tears. She smiled and reached up to touch my cheek.“I’m okay, for now at least.”
   I smiled and rubbed her back.“I’m glad.”
   And then Summer leaned into me, molding her lips against my own as she gave me a firm, warm, and inviting kiss. It was tender, not passionate, and eventually she pulled away and took a deep breath.“Thank you, Ben.”
   I smiled and tamped down on the urge to kiss her again. Hearing Summer’s thanks just for holding her was better than hearing both Stacey Whitehouse and Mandy Lin sing my praises after I fucked them to a dozen orgasms. Summer’s appreciation just felt… richer… somehow. “You’re welcome,” I answered sincerely, then sat up then and looked around for my shoes.
   Summer sighed and sat up against the pillows, pulling her knees up to her chest and wrapping her arms around them.“You remind me of him.”
   I arched an eyebrow as I started putting on one shoe. Surely she didn’t think I reminded her of Jae, the hated ex-boyfriend. “Who?”
   “My brother. He used to hold me like that when I was scared or sad. He’s at UCLA now.” Summer giggled and then touched her fingers to her lips. “Of course, I never kissed him like THAT.”
   I grinned and put on my other shoe. Then standing up, I took one look back at the beautiful blonde who now seemed happier than I’d seen her in a week. “See you tomorrow?”
   “Of course. Thank you, Ben.”
   “Sleep well tonight.” I tipped my head and then left.* * *
   Tuesday was more of the same. I walked hand-in-hand with Summer, giving her a squeeze every now and again when I thought her spirits were dropping. This was her big day of finals and she was completely stressed out. But with my help, she made it through the day in one piece.
   I also cancelled my booty call with Stacey for that afternoon, for which the snooty senior was NOT happy. She was done with her finals and looking to celebrate. She’d also seen me around with Summer and asked if the busty blonde was my new girlfriend. I told her Summer was just a friend and Stacey shook her head disbelievingly. “Look, if you change your mind, I’ll be home all night,” she stated flatly. “I’ve been looking forward to this for a while. Don’t disappoint me, Ben.”
   My loins urged me to reconsider, but I took a deep breath and reminded myself that being supportive of Summer and feeling her warm, platonic affection made me feel happier and more satisfied than some of my best orgasms.
   Of course, Summer had just finished all but one of her final exams. They’d mentally drained her and yet given her a profound sense of relief that she was almost done. And with the passing time, Summer was getting over Jae. So between her relaxation over completed finals and her developing independence from her ex-boyfriend, Summer only needed me to hold her for a half-hour in the afternoon before sending me on my way.
   Now I hadn’t gotten laid since making love to Summer that last time on Saturday, and I was pretty stressed out myself staring down six final exams in the next three days. Plus, after going through a pretty intense fucking schedule with Donna, Stacey, Mandy, the Sanders twins, and Summer, I was feeling pretty horny and starting to suffer withdrawal.
   Summer had also worn a sundress this day, which had scooted up while we spooned so that her bare naked butt, uncovered by the back of her thong panties, had been pressed against me for the past half-hour. If she’d wanted me to hold her for much longer, I would have been sorely tempted to break my promise not to make a move on her.
   But she did release me and let me go, and the instant I put my car into gear, I remembered Stacey’s urge for me to change my mind. She wanted to fuck and she wanted to fuck today. Why not? It was just meaningless sex for a little stress relief during Finals Week. And I NEEDED to relieve some pent-up tension.
   Ten minutes later, I pulled up outside the Whitehouse mansion. The maid escorted me up to Stacey’s suite. Stacey herself opened the door and stood there, grinning at me. “I knew you’d come. No good pussy goes wasted.”
   “Would be a crying shame,” I smiled and obviously ogled her slender, sexy body.
   Stacey reached out and grabbed me by the collar, tugging me inside and then slamming the door. Seconds later we were naked and fucking away to our heart’s content.* * *
   On Wednesday, Summer slipped her hand into mine after my first final as we headed for her usual hangout spot to take the first break. She didn’t have any exams or anything this day, but she came to school to hang out with her friends… and with me.
   After a minute or so, she nudged me in the ribs.“You’re more relaxed today. Would have thought you’d be wound up after your final.”
   I shrugged.“Wasn’t as hard as I thought.”
   She smiled serenely and then got a funny look in her eyes. And then grinning, Summer asked,“Did you get laid last night?”
   My eyebrows went up in a panic, giving me away.“Well, uh, I…” I’d had enough experience with girlfriends finding out I’d cheated on them to immediately feel like shrinking away from what was sure to be flying fists.
   But Summer wasn’t my girlfriend and she wasn’t about to hit me. Chuckling, she asked, “Who was it?” But immediately, she caught herself and waved, “Nevermind. None of my business.”
   I looked at her earnestly and squeezed her hand.“You’re not upset?”
   “You’re not my boyfriend, Ben. I’ve got no limits on what, or who, you can’t do. We’re just friends and I appreciate everything you’re doing for me.” She giggled. “Besides, it can’t be easy lying in bed with me day after day and not being able to push things further.”
   I blushed and admitted,“No it’s not. I keep remembering what we did Saturday. And you’re very sexy, Summer.”
   “Thanks,” she blushed too. And then she gave me a significant look. “Who knows? It’s a long time before college starts. Someday you may get lucky again.”* * *
   We made it through our Wednesday finals and that afternoon, Summer and I spent almost two hours studying for our Thursday Modern Lit final. She was determined to get a passing grade and I was determined to help her.
   In fact, we were so focused that we didn’t spend any time spooning in her bed, and she didn’t start crying even once throughout the afternoon. And when Summer slammed her binder closed and pronounced that she was ready for the test, her bright blue eyes sparkled and she threw herself at me in a fierce hug.
   We’d been laying side-by-side on her bed to study. And when she tackled me we rolled over so that I was lying flat on my back and she was above me, clutching me tightly with her face buried against my neck. I smiled and patted her back platonically, pleased that she seemed so happy and confident about the test now.
   I didn’t realize what was going on until I felt the first drop of moisture hit my neck. And then with worry I pulled my head away from hers and held her face in my hands, brushing away her tears with my thumbs. “Summer, what’s wrong?”
   She smiled despite the waterworks,“I’m happy, Ben. I’m really happy. Thank you so much, I don’t know that I could have ever felt this way again if it wasn’t for you.”
   I smiled back.“You’d have been fine. You’re a strong young woman, Summer. And Jae’s just another guy.”
   Sniffling, she nodded her head.“Thanks for everything.”
   “Don’t thank me just yet,” I was already saying, which stopped her head halfway back towards me. She blinked in confusion before I said, “You still have to TAKE your final tomorrow.”
   Chuckling quietly, Summer sat up straight and wiped her eyes.“Right, right. Don’t count your chickens or something, right?”
   “Right.” I took a deep breath and then let out a long exhalation. “You going to be okay tonight?”
   “Yeah,” she nodded and turned away from me. “I’ll be fine.” And then she turned and gave me a mysterious look. “Are you… going to go find someone to have sex with tonight?”
   I arched an eyebrow and shook my head.“No, no plans.” I bit down on my impulse to ask, ‘Why? Are you offering?’ Instead, I held up my binder and tapped it. “I’ve got another final to go study for.”
   “Right, right,” Summer blinked away the moisture in her eyes and smiled. “I’ll see you tomorrow, Ben.”
   “Bye, Summer.”* * *
   I was waiting for her when she walked out the door. Yeah, I’d been sailing through Modern Lit and was pretty confident I had an ‘A’ when I turned in my exam early. But I couldn’t relax until I saw Summer again and found out how she’d done as well.
   I had my answer when she emerged into the bright light, the sun’s rays reflecting in her hair as she broke into a smile that dazzled even brighter. I was just getting up from my seat on the bench when Summer broke into a run and sprinted at me. And I had just enough time to brace myself when she launched herself into the air and wrapped her legs around me ina big hug.
   “I did it!” she crowed into my face as she hooked her arms behind my neck. “I NAILED it!”
   I couldn’t respond verbally as she’d knocked the wind out of me, but I managed not to drop her and just smiled back warmly.
   And then I couldn’t say anything further as Summer seized my head and planted a searing kiss on my lips, cramming her tongue into the back of my mouth as she attacked my mouth with intense passion.
   When she pulled her head back, I was in a daze and she giggled while lowering her legs so that she could stand up on her own.“Sorry, didn’t mean to startle you.”
   “Whoa…” I wobbled for a minute at the unexpected ferocity of her kiss. “No problem. You can kiss me like that anytime…”
   The beautiful blonde giggled.“I just may take you up on that.” She took a deep breath and then sighed happily. “Oh, Ben… I did it… I’m graduating High School! I did it! Because of you!” She tittered and giggled as she wrapped me up in a hug again.
   I patted her on the back again and felt my own spirits rise with Summer’s enthusiasm. She looked up at me and for a brief moment, I was sorely tempted to scoop her up and plant another juicy kiss on her lips. But I resisted and just smiled.
   Her own smile faltered for a second, her clear blue eyes searching into mine. And then the finality of it all began to sink in. And stepping right up to me so that those big tits were up against my chest, Summer wrapped her arms around me and looked up at my face.“Thank you, Ben. For everything, not just Modern Lit.”
   “You’re very welcome,” I replied sincerely.
   “In spite of everything going on, these past few days haven’t just been bearable; they’ve been some of the best days of my life,” Summer said sweetly while beaming up at me.
   “Me, too.” It had been a long time since I felt close to someone without having regular sex with them. Maybe this was what Keira had meant about understanding real love, the kind of love that was possible without the clouded judgment of sex and lust. “I really enjoyed spending time with you.”
   “Me, too,” Summer said in a husky voice, and for a second she got up on her tiptoes and leaned in towards me.
   My eyes went wide. Of course I wanted to be intimate with Summer, but I also wanted not to be. This was about friendship, not lust, and when she moved in to kiss me I briefly worried that I wouldn’t be able to control myself.
   Perhaps she saw my hesitation. Perhaps she stopped for her own reasons. But either way, Summer arrested her ascension almost as quickly as she started, and she settled back down to her heels.
   Relaxing, I sighed.“I’m going to miss hanging out with you in the afternoon. Even though we weren’t doing anything, it felt really nice just to hold you in my arms, Summer.”
   She smiled and then tilted her head.“Hey, you promised to just be there for me through the end of the week. Well, there’s still one more day of school left.”
   I smiled and nodded.“Right.”
   “Come over this afternoon? Hold me in bed?” Summer asked with shimmering blue eyes.
   “Of course.”
   She smiled and this time got up on her tiptoes to peck my cheek.“See you later.”* * *
   Brooke stomped into the house as soon as I pulled up to the curb. Freshmen HATED finals and my little sister was no different. Not that the rest of usenjoyed finals, but we were at least used to the grind.
   So on autopilot, I drove off to Summer’s house, contemplating the weird twists and turns of my life. I barely spoke two words to Summer before becoming Adrienne’s boyfriend. Yeah, we partied together that Spring Break, but apart from some admiration for her gorgeous body, she was really no different from a hundred other girls at school. Even after Spring Break, we were just casual acquaintances and coincidental classmates for a single elective literature course.
   Literally, I’d shown up for a casual study session just six days ago. Six days. Her world was crumbling and she ended up fucking my brains out. Since then there had been no sexual contact, and yet even though I’d been recently intimate with no less than FIVE other girls, Summer was the one I felt closest to.
   She’dneeded me. It was an intoxicating sensation, more alluring than being sexually desired. Summer didn’t just need my dick, she needed ME. She needed someone to hold her while she cried. She needed someone to listen while she bitched and moaned about the stupidity of the male species. And she needed a reliable hand to squeeze comfortingly, as if I were a combination living teddy bear, stress ball, and warm blanket. And on top of that, I was a Modern Lit tutor.
   But now that need was almost over. Her academics were pretty much complete. And she’d weathered the worst few days post-breakup. From what I could see, she’d gotten most of Jae out of her system, and she would no longer need a shoulder to cry on. It was time to move on.
   I’d miss her. In the last couple of months since breaking up with Adrienne, I’d gotten plenty of sex. I got laid pretty much as often as ever, despite not having a steady girlfriend, which is something most guys can’t say. But I had no emotional connection to anyone. I missed that part, and I’d gotten a taste of it back with Summer. But now that was ending, too. I wasn’t in a relationship. I wasn’t even dating. Summer and I were just in a temporary arrangement of support.
   WE, Summer and I, were ending. And that made me sad. And it was in this state that I arrived at her house.
   She met me at the door and immediately asked,“What’s wrong?”
   I took a deep breath and looked at her forlornly. She said nothing but stepped forward and wrapped her arms around my waist and laid her head against my shoulder.
   “I’m going to miss this,” I told her. “I don’t think I’ve ever been able to just hug someone who wasn’t my girlfriend.”
   I could feel her smiling.“That’s because you’re a boy. You get all weird about affection. Girls hug each other all the time.”
   My mind flashed back to the Spring Break orgy, particularly to a moment where Summer and Adrienne were laying on top of each other face-to-face, making out and crushing their tits into each other while I drilled Adrienne from behind. Before I realized it, I let out a low groan and felt my cock rising to bump Summer in the belly.
   She giggled and stepped back, looking at the bulge in my shorts.
   “Sorry,” I murmured.
   “Don’t worry about it,” Summer shook her head and then took my hand, squeezing it. “Come on in.”
   We found ourselves lying on her bed. I was sitting up with a couple pillows supporting my lower back. I had Summer lying on my chest while I stroked her back, both of us lost in our thoughts. We both knew she didn’t need to cry and didn’t reallyneed to be held or comforted anymore. But we also knew that we both enjoyed this quiet cuddling.
   The only times I’d ever really held someone this intimately were either right before or right after having sex. Before sex, I would be aroused and horny and eager to get to the fucking. After sex, I cuddled out of satisfaction and mellowness.
   But holding Summer like this just felt… relaxing. There was no pressure to move things along towards having sex. Actually, if we HADN’T fucked that first day, I might have been feeling some tension inside from desire for Summer. But now I could just feel peaceful and enjoy the pleasant affection without ulterior motive.
   I would miss this.
   I would miss her.
   I wasn’t evenwith her, but I’d bonded to Summer and I wasn’t so eager to let go of that. So I asked softly, “Do we really have to stop?”
   Summer chuckled and without turning her head to look at me, answered,“I have to give you back to your friends, Ben.”
   “What if I would rather spend more time with you?”
   She didn’t answer for a long few minutes, but twice I felt her arms tighten around me, clutching my body as if unwilling to ever let go. And then at last she let out a long exhalation of air. She tilted her head downwards, away from me. “I can’t spend any more time with you, Ben. If I do, I’m afraid I’ll fall in love with you.”
   I smiled and stroked her back. I could very easily imagine myself with Summer as my girlfriend.“Would that really be so bad?”
   “I’m going to college, Ben. I’m leaving home and moving on with my life.”
   “UCLA isn’t so far away,” I pointed out, regretting it the moment I said it. Summer was starting a new chapter in her life. Who was I to try and hold her back? “I’m sorry, I shouldn’t be pushing this.”
   She sighed.“Ben, you’ve helped me so much. I’d have been a wreck this whole week if it wasn’t for you, and I may very well have failed all my finals. But just because I’ve had your support doesn’t mean I’m not screwed up inside.” She took a deep breath. “I’ve been through this enough timesto know, Ben. I’m rebounding. I want to believe that these feelings I have for you are real. Most of the feelings probably ARE real; you’re a sweet guy. But… I’m smart enough to know that some of the feelings are pure rebound. And I don’t want to build a relationship on a rebound. It wouldn’t be fair to either one of us.”
   I sighed.“I know, I know.” My 17-year-old brain understood. But my 17-year-old heart didn’t want to admit it.
   Summer turned in my arms then and crawled up until her face was level with mine. She touched my cheek with one hand and then leaned forward, softly pressing her lips to mine.
   The tender kiss increased in pressure until she tilted her head and opened her mouth. My hands snaked up behind her head and held her to me as I probed with my tongue. She whimpered and moaned as our tongues touched and then we were breathing heavily through our noses as our kiss built and built into a full-blown heavy makeout session.
   I lost track of how long we kissed. I was deliriously happy and yet felt the dark cloud in the back of my head, creeping over the horizon and steadily approaching. And as if by mutual consent, Summer and I slowed down our kisses until we finally pulled apart, panting for air while staring into each other’s eyes from inches away.
   It had been a thrilling kiss, and yet the instant it was over I immediately began wondering if that was our last. I got a pained look in my eyes and sighing, Summer moved up and pecked my forehead.
   Stroking my cheek, she said quietly,“In another world, one where I’m not on the rebound from Jae and I’m not leaving for college in a few months, who knows where life might have taken the two of us?”
   I closed my eyes and nodded. And when I opened them all my tension flooded out of me. I could accept. I took a deep breath and then looked at Summer’s pretty face. “Can we still be friends?”
   She smiled.“Of course!”
   I nodded and then sat up. Scooting my butt over, I moved towards the edge of the bed and started looking around for my shoes.
   Summer sighed and sat up against the pillows, pulling her knees up to her chest and wrapping her arms around them. And then in a hesitant voice, she said softly,“Ben?”
   I paused while reaching for my shoe and turned to look at her.“Hmm?”
   “You’re leaving for this summer camp, when?”
   “June 30th. Saturday.”
   “Two weeks?”
   I nodded.
   “And then you’ll be gone for a month?”
   I nodded again.
   She took a deep breath and hugged her knees tightly.“Ben, I don’t want you to visit me at all for those two weeks you’re still here. Not after graduation.”
   Hurt, my eyebrows furrowed and I sat back against the bed heavily.“What? Why?” I moaned. I’d expected that Summer and I wouldn’t be cuddling every afternoon or holding hands all day anymore, but I assumed she and I could still hang out and talk or even just go somewhere and be quiet together. I really DID feel quite relaxed when I was just near to her andsaying nothing.
   “Promise me, Ben. Promise.” Her voice cracked and new tears were forming in her eyes.
   With a pained expression, I nodded slowly.“OK. I promise. Two weeks. But I reserve the right to visit come August.”
   She barked a short laugh.“Okay.” And then she let out a long exhalation, seeming relieved.
   “But why, Summer?” I whimpered. “I’ll do it. Not after graduation. But why?”
   “Please, Ben? I… I’m over Jae. I KNOW it,” she said firmly.
   I nodded.“That’s good, that’s good.” But I didn’t understand what that had to do with me.
   Summer sighed.“But now… now I’m going to need time to get over you.”
   “Get over?” I asked. “We’re just friends, Summer. We’ll always be friends.”
   “I know we will. But… it’s already too late. I have feelings for you, Ben; feelings that I’m going to have to get over. And I can’t do that if you’re still around.”
   I sighed and turned my head away, nodding slowly.“Me, too.”
   She reached out and squeezed my hand. I squeezed back, never wanting to let go. But it was time to let go. I leaned over and pecked Summer on the cheek, resigned to our fates. She was right. In another world, who knew where life might have taken the two of us? But this was the only world we really had. It was a world where the timing was off, where she was rebounding from a boyfriend and I was just a teenager with too many hormones and a tendency to be led around by my erection.
   I stood up and looked towards my shoes again. But instead of reaching for them, I found myself unable to move. I didn’t want to let go of her hand just yet. It was as if the moment I let go, it would all be over, and the hopeless romantic in me wished some magical, cosmic event would happen to change this world and make it possible for me and Summer to be together.
   She didn’t let go of my hand either. I don’t pretend to know what was running through her mind, but I believed it was something similar to mine.
   And then letting out one last breath of air… I let go.
   My hand was free in the air for less than a second, because almost as soon as I released her, Summer grabbed my hand again and yanked me back towards her. I spun instinctively and her other hand went up to my face, guiding me to her lips as we kissed with passion and love and terror at losing each other.
   Our clothes went flying in every direction. And before I knew it, Summer was fully naked with those impossibly big and round tits sitting upright and being compressed down by my bare chest. Her hand wrapped around my cock and guided it to her sexual center, and once she got my mushroom head slotted into position her hand darted around and pulled on my buttcheek while I drove myself into her, grunting in effort while she threw her head back and moaned happily at the penetration.
   The second after my pelvic bone slammed into hers, Summer grabbed my head and we kissed with a frantic energy. Mid-kiss, I withdrew my hips several inches and then rammed myself forward, the impact breaking our kiss for a moment before our lips found each other once again. And after I did it three more times she finally had to turn her head to gasp for oxygen and start whimpering her pleasure while I pistoned in and out of her tight, clenching pussy.
   “Oh, Ben! Oh I wanted this so much! Fuck me! Fuck me! Deeper! Oh, Ben, Ben, Ben! Love me! Fill me! Fuck me!”
   “Summer!” I grunted and drilled into her with wild abandon. “Summer!” I groaned in absolute rapture that after nearly a week of cuddling and affection that we were once again joined together in the most intimate of positions.
   Her legs were crossed behind my ass, tugging me all the way inside her body with every thrust. Our mouths found each other over and over as we made love with our tongues just as much as with our loins. And when I felt her body shudder beneath me and her inner muscles clamp down around my invading shaft, she kissed me so hard my teeth hurt.
   Seconds later, I joined her, thrusting my cock in to the hilt and spewing out a diluvial torrent of jism deep into her clasping pussy.
   “Ohhh!” Summer groaned in ecstasy while we both felt our climaxes coursing through our bodies, and her hips kept twitching for several minutes long after I’d finished filling her up with my cum.
   After we’d both recovered, I set my forehead down onto the pillow beside Summer’s head. She turned her face to me and gave me a tender kiss on the cheek. And then I rotated my face to hers so that I could get another one, this time on the lips.
   I was supporting most of my weight on my own elbows, but I still felt the lush curves of her body pressed against my chest while my cock deflated inside of her. I truly had enjoyed making love with Summer, but I searched her crystal blue eyes for any signs of regret. Even when I was trying to be a“good guy” and share warm, platonic affection without sex, I still wound up getting laid, and I worried it was my fault.
   But there was no regret in Summer’s eyes as she smiled at me and patted my back. “Now I’m REALLY going to need time to get over you,” she said softly. “If we made love like that one more time there’s no WAY I wouldn’t fall head over heels in love with you.”
   My cock twitched at that thought, and Summer felt it inside her. My eyes lit up and I grinned,“Well, if you put it that way, maybe we should have another go.”
   Summer giggled but pushed gently at my shoulders. Obediently, I rolled off and pulled my prick out of her, lying beside her while staring at the ceiling. She slid her hand into mine and gave it a squeeze.“In another world, Ben. But for now, it’s time for you to go.”* * *
   I wasn’t expecting to see Summer again until Saturday’s graduation ceremony. But on Friday morning, just as I came up from the parking lot with Brooke, the beautiful California blonde was standing there waiting for me.
   “Hi…” Summer said sweetly as she wrapped her arms around me in a fierce hug.
   “Hi!” I replied in surprise while patting her on the back. “What are you doing here? I thought you and the Senior girls were going to the beach today?”
   “We are, but not until later. Candy said she’s gonna sleep in until noon.” Summer giggled, a sound that both brightened my spirits and broke my heart. I’d miss the sound of her voice. “I just wanted to see you before we left,” Summer finished.
   “I’m glad.” I squeezed her hand.
   We walked into the school together and eventually, we got into the general vicinity of my next final’s classroom. Summer realized we were stopping and she pulled me over to a quiet alcove. “Ben…” Her voice cracked. “I meant what I said. After Saturday, we can’t see each other anymore.”
   I felt my shoulders sag, but I nodded in agreement.“I understand.”
   She tilted her head to mine and leaned in as if to kiss me, but we both paused and after another moment’s hesitation, she turned her head and we hugged each other tightly. “Thank you, Ben.”
   “You’re very welcome,” I replied in a soft voice while stroking her back.
   We hugged for another few seconds before I felt that little tingle on the back of my neck that told me someone was watching us. I pulled back and looked over to see Adrienne standing there, giving us a funny look.
   I returned to Summer and tenderly pecked her forehead. And then I released her away. She blinked away the little moisture forming in her eyes and sighed, turning and only then seeing Adrienne.
   “Hey,” Adrienne offered.
   “Hey,” Summer replied and then canted her head to the side with a wry grin on her face. “I’m so jealous of you, A.D.”
   Adrienne furrowed her eyebrows in confusion and looked back and forth between me and Summer.“Jealous? For what?”
   “For him,” Summer tilted her head towards me. “I only got a week. You still have him all next year.”
   Adrienne bit her lip and looked at the ground, not entirely sure how to respond to that. But Summer just turned and touched her right hand to my cheek and squeezed my hand with her left.
   And then with a little smile, Summer let go of me and walked away.
   Chapter 17: ConsequencesJUNE 2001, JUNIOR YEAR
   “Oh, THAT’s what that question was asking?”
   “Wait, what do you MEAN there was a question 5b?”
   “Ah hell, my parents are gonna kill me when that report card comes out.”
   “Fuck it. I don’t care anymore. When are you heading over to Elaine’s place?”
   School was out. The past was past, and anything short of hacking the database or sneaking into the records office wouldn’t change your test scores. So by four in the afternoon, Elaine Fukuhara and 35 of her closest friends were out back by the pool at her family’s mansion, celebrating our newfound freedom.
   It seemed pretty much just like last year’s party. No one tried to sneak in any drugs this time, although there seemed to be much more beer being consumed. The bodies running around were much more developed, and this time all 21 of the girls present were wearing bikinis; no more one-pieces.
   Last year, the unattached guys and unattached girls had been pretty segregated. It had been like a game of red rover, where the guys would occasionally send out someone in an attempt to break through to the girls, but he was unfortunately returned several minutes later. This year, everyone mingled amongst each other with casual flirting and obvious ogling the rule, rather than the exception.
   I was no different. I chatted and flirted easily, walking with the confidence of a guy who’d gotten laid by way more than his fair share of girls in the past year. A couple of girls avoided me like the plague, but there were also a few who seemed more than willing to become the next notch on my belt. Things certainly had changed since we were all just “nice kids”.
   As it was, I spent most of the early afternoon manning the grill with Daniel Chen. Elaine would send him on errands every now and again, leaving me to take over. Girls who had no interest in the burgers would stop by to chat with me, profiling themselves for maximum cleavage. Curiously, whenever Megan or Cassidy came over to chat, most of those girls would keep their distance. I didn’t particularly mind. Believe it or not, I wasn’t really looking to get laid.
   I would never have believed it a few months ago, but I’d gotten a little bored with casual hookups. Sure, screwing Donna and Stacey and Mandy had been quite pleasurable, but spending a few afternoons cuddling with Summer and not having sex had felt far more rewarding. When we finally did make love yesterday afternoon, just the one time, the experience had been so much richer and fulfilling.
   And I still had Summer on my mind. Where was she right now? Still at the beach with Candy, Mizuho, and the rest? Were cute lifeguards flirting with her? Did I even have any right to be jealous?
   Daniel returned just then, and I went to grab a fresh Corona and flop onto a lounge chair. Kenny Doyle, already buzzed, came over with Rachel Tyler under his arm and toasted his Corona bottle with me.“Cheers! We’re free!”
   I tilted my Oakleys and arched an eyebrow at the recent couple. Kenny had finally landed his dream girl after years of pursuit. I only hoped she could keep up with his perpetual horniness.
   Across the way, Sung Joon and Stephanie Vo were in the pool, pressed up against the wall while sucking each other’s faces. On a couple of lounge chairs further off, Derek Rigby and Su-Lin Chang were holding hands. And right next to me, Elaine slid over and wrapped her arm around Daniel’s waist, resting her head on his shoulder as she used her other hand to drop slices of cheese onto the burgers.
   Everywhere I looked were happy couples. And as I nursed my beer, I found myself all alone. Inevitably, my gaze went across to Megan and Cassidy, who were chatting with some other friends. It felt like AGES ago when we were a triple, and even longer back to when it was just me and Megan exploring oral sex when she was just fifteen.
   What a difference a year makes. Last year at this same time, Megan gave me her very first blowjob. Since then, I’d had an abundance of sex with some of the most gorgeous creatures on the planet, sampling a variety of nubile teen flesh. And yet I imagined I was happier last year than I was now.
   So I chugged another beer.
   I was pretty buzzed by the time we all got in the pool for some water volleyball. And I was certifiably drunk by 8pm. But I was still pretty functional. I decided to take it easy on the rest of the alcohol, especially since I was once again manning the grill as we brought out kabobs, chicken, and steaks for dinner.
   As usual, girls came to chat with the chef, flirting with me as they picked up their food. With the sun just setting, typical for mid-June, the air was warm and they still wore nothing but their bikinis. I ogled flesh and they gave me better looks at their curves, and all in all everyone had a good time. Two such girls were Abigail and Allison Sanders.
   Unlike the others, the twins didn’t just grab their food and move on. They stood around, one twin talking while the other took a few bites of her chicken sandwich, and then they would trade places with the other twin picking up the conversation.
   I didn’t mind. The cute brunettes were looking pretty good, wearing matching blue and white bikinis. They’d just stepped out of the pool before coming up to me, the moist fabric clinging to their tight bodies and outlining hard nipples. Memory of the night I took their virginities filled in the nakedness I couldn’t currently see.
   Presently, Elaine and Daniel came over to us, both of them wearing just-fucked expressions. Daniel thanked me for watching the grill and offered to take over, and at the same time Allie leaned in to whisper something into Elaine’s ear.
   Whatever Allie said, Elaine looked straight at me and frowned slightly. But she nodded and made some hand gestures. The next thing I knew, I had a Sanders twin on either side of me, holding my arms and directing me into the house.“Come on,” Allie said. “We want to play.”
   I frowned in mild confusion. I knew the girls had wanted to continue their sexual exploration, but I’d assumed it wouldn’t happen until sometime next week at the earliest. I’d just taken their virginities seven days ago, and they said their periods were due in three days. I’d even glimpsed the string of a tampon when Abbie had adjusted her bikini bottom earlier in the evening. So… maybethe girls wanted to practice blowjobs?
   If that was the case, I certainly wouldn’t mind. I was still pretty drunk and the idea of some recreational oral play certainly sounded good to both my little head and my alcohol-buzzing big head. I supposed I could happily go two years in a row with blowjobs during the end-of-school barbecue.
   But it turned out, the girls had much more on their minds.
   Oh, it started off like I expected. The twins giggled and groped me through my shorts as we found a bedroom inside the mansion. Thankfully, this time it wasn’t a bedroom that overlooked the backyard, so I didn’t need to worry about noise carrying down to our friends below.
   Abbie had always taken the lead and so I swept her into my arms first, bending her back and giving her a fierce kiss that would have knocked her socks off, were she wearing any. As it was, I settled for running my hands across her bare shoulders and down to the bowtie holding up her halter-top bikini. When she didn’t object, I deftly pulled it open and then also opened up the back-tie. I then tossed the bikini top away and kissed my way down Abbie’s neck until I reached her cute tits.
   Since she was just 5’3”, I had to bend quite a bit to reach Abbie’s perky B-cups and take a nipple into her mouth. She held my head to her chest and moaned for a few seconds before turning my head away, and I saw that a topless Allie had moved next to us. I took a quick nip at Allie’s nipple as well before wrapping my arms around the younger twin’s waist, hoisting her up so that I could kiss her at my own full height.
   Allie giggled and then lifted her legs up and around my waist, supporting her own weight while she pressed her mouth more firmly against my lips and started darting her tongue inside. And while I still held on to the petite girl, Abbie guided us back towards the bed.
   While Allie wasn’t heavy, I didn’t mind getting into a more comfortable position and once I felt the bed against the back of my legs, I let myself sink down into a sitting position. Allie kept pushing me further until I was flat on my back, and then she moved away from my waist and dipped her breasts at my face while Abbie went to work removing my swim trunks.
   Soon, I was fully naked with my ass on the edge of the bed. The Sanders twins were both topless but kept their bikini bottoms on, confirming my suspicion that they were still on the rag. But we still had lots to play with as the girls grabbed pillows for their knees and then settled on either side of my dick. I was rock hard and angled up against my own stomach, and Abbie reached out to pull my erection upright so that the twin girls could simultaneously start licking up the sides of my shaft.
   “Oh…” I sighed. “You two are a dream come true.”
   The girls giggled.“We practiced this on a carrot,” Allie explained, and then the two turned their heads to the sides so they both could plant their lips on my shaft and kiss my cock at the same time. Afterwards, Allie took over by lowering her mouth over the top of my cock, swallowing the first few inches until my head started nudging against her throat. I knew that was all she could take and for a moment, I debated whether to try and teach the twins deep-throating.
   “Of course, a carrot doesn’t have balls,” Abbie giggled as she moved down to lick my testicles, causing me to shiver. I was surprised she remembered to even attempt that, as I’d only mentioned it once in passing. She tickled them with her fingertips and suckled one ball into her mouth before swapping places with Allie and then they started all over again.
   What followed was one of the most pleasant blowjobs of my life. The girls were still inexperienced, but they were very enthusiastic and their tag team approach was quite effective. I found myself straining my neck in an effort to watch the two identical faces worshipping my cock, and eventually I felt my balls compressing in readiness to burst.
   “Girls, I’m gonna cum,” I warned. The last time they’d done this, Abbie and Allie had parked their heads side-by-side and let me hose down both their faces. But this time, Abbie took over by taking as much of my meat into her mouth while jacking me furiously and Allie moaned and squeezed her own tits while heatedly watching.
   My stomach muscles convulsed twice before I felt the hot jism race up my cock and splatter inside Abbie’s mouth. Her eyes bulged when she felt the first impact but she kept on pumping, her nostrils flaring as she sucked in oxygen and kept taking more and more of my cum into her mouth.
   After the fourth burst, Abbie had to pull away as she tilted her head back, her lower jaw jutting out to hold in the pool of cum she had trapped there as she also took in a deep breath of air. I realized then that she hadn’t been swallowing and had saved my cum.
   Meanwhile, my cock was still twitching and after spitting out a small wad into the air, Allie grabbed me and took what was left of my load into her mouth. She too didn’t swallow and once I was done, Allie turned to her twin sister and molded her lips over Abbie’s, and to my utter amazement and delight the identical twins began french kissing each other and passing my creamy jism back and forth between each other, little white globs leaking out from their sloppy liplock.
   The sight was almost enough to make me pop again.
   Eventually, the girls swallowed whatever they had in their mouths and then blushing, began to scoop up the remains from their chins and cheeks. My eyes were wide open and Allie’s eyes twinkled at me. “Like that?” she asked.
   “Fuck yeah that was hot!” I crowed.
   “We thought you would,” Allie smiled and then nodded to her sister. Abbie just reached out and took me into her mouth again, humming and moaning around my already half-hard dick.
   And while Abbie raised and lowered her head along my shaft, Allie got up and joined me on the bed, lying back across the bedspread.“Mmm… time to fuck me now, Ben.”
   I arched an eyebrow and made a face.“What about your periods?”
   Allie giggled and snaked her bikini bottoms off, hooking them onto a foot and then flinging them away with her toes.“I’m not on my period yet. And I want to feel you spunk inside me.”
   Now I may have been drunk, but I wasn’t totally gone. I frowned and did the math. “Wait, you told me on Friday that you were due in like three days? That would have been… Monday!”
   Allie shrugged and spread her legs, revealing a clean and recently trimmed pussy, dipping a hand down to stir her own wet lubrication.“Three days, seven days, whatever. We’ve always been a little irregular. But we’re always pretty close and Abbie just got hers this morning. She was hoping she could still fuck too but I guess it’s just you and me for now! Better take the opportunity since I’ll probably start tonight or tomorrow.”
   I arched an eyebrow and looked at both girls.“Did you guys get prescriptions for the pill?”
   They both nodded, and Abbie announced,“Took my first one this morning.” She then resumed her hot little blowjob.
   Meanwhile, her twin sister leaned back on the bed and raised up her knees. Allie fixed me with a sultry grin and spread her own labia wide.“Come fuck me, Ben.”
   Abbie’s enthusiastic blowing had brought me back to full hardness and I first lifted the older twin up to give her a thank you kiss. The cute brunette swooned happily and then turned me around to help me into position. But I had other ideas. “Feel like trying a new position?” I asked Allie. We’ddone missionary and girl-on-top last week.
   She grinned.“Sure!”
   I quickly positioned the petite girl on all fours and Allie quickly got the idea.“C’mere, Ben! Fuck me like a dog! I’m your slutty doggie!”
   Allie’s enthusiasm was contagious and I quickly knelt behind her, holding her left hip in my hand and my own prick with my right, and aiming carefully I nudged my cockhead between her labia and then started burrowing into Allie’s near-virginal snatch.
   “Ooh…” she crooned as she felt me sliding in. From her small size and minimal experience, Allie was incredibly tight and I knew she could feel every bump and ridge passing into her body. Her pussy actually didn’t let me all the way in that first time, and I had to back out a few inches and try twice more before I was fully seated balls deep into the 16-year-old cutie.
   Meanwhile, Abbie didn’t feel like being completely left out. She knelt beside me and had me suckling on her nipples and exchanging kisses while she rooted around her own crotch with one hand. “Ohmigod…” Abbie moaned while I nursed on one teat.
   “Ohmigod…” Allie moaned in reply as my shaft moved in and out of her clenching tunnel.
   “Oh… my… gawd,” I grunted myself.
   “So good, Ben,” Allie groaned. “Ugh, ugh, ugh,” she whimpered happily when I started to pick up the pace. And then she really started moaning when Abbie left me and reached under Allie’s humping body to diddle her younger sister’s clit.
   Together, Abbie and I made Allie cum once. And then together, Abbie and I helped make Abbie herself cum once, albeit without penetration. And then as Abbie fell away to pant and relax, I grabbed Allie’s hips in both of my hands and really began to pound her small body from behind.
   “Ohhh, fuck!” Allie grunted. “He’s fucking me, Abbie! He’s fucking me so hard!”
   “I know…” Abbie groaned. “It’s so hot to watch!”
   “Unngh!” Allie moaned while fucking herself back at me. “He’s so deep. His cock is so big and it’s going so deep into me! I feel like he’s splitting me apart!”
   “Cum, Allie!” Her twin sister cheered. “Cum on that fat cock! Squeeze it inside your little cunny!”
   “Oh, I’m gonna cum again, Abbie! He’s gonna make me cum again! So close! So close! So— AAAAH!!!”
   Allie did squeeze my cock inside her little cunny. Her whole body trembled and with that, her arms collapsed as she hunched over with only her ass upthrust into the air. I continued pounding Allie’s petite body all through her orgasm, and with the new angle I felt like I could go even deeper. In fact, several times it felt like the head of my cock was bouncing off the spongy wall at the back of her vagina.
   When I got to orgasm myself, I didn’t need to make a sound. Allie kept up her running commentary to inform her sister.
   “Oh, Abbie! He’s cumming! He’s cumming in me! I can feel his hot juices splashing into my pussy! It’s so good! I love it! I love it! I want it all the time!”
   Grunting, I gripped Allie’s hips even tighter and pulled her close to me so that my cockhead was right at the back of her tunnel where I would be sure to squirt right into her womb.
   “So good! So hot! Flood my pussy with your cum, Ben! More! More!”
   Unfortunately, I only had a few more shots. But I made them count by blasting them right where Allie wanted them, and after a few seconds of tense arms and straining muscles, I relaxed and let go of her little body, letting Allie collapse off my dick and flat onto her stomach. Already, a mini-river of creamy goo was oozing out of her lewdly stretched pussy lips.
   Allie panted and turned her head to me.“Ben, clear your schedule for a week from now. Because once I’m off my period I’m going to fuck you every chance I get.”* * *
   I was still pretty buzzed by the time I flopped back into a lounge chair, both from lingering alcohol and sexual satisfaction. It was dark outside, the backyard illuminated by several scattered lights around which various groups huddled together. And I settled in to catch my breath and sip some water.
   A few minutes later, Megan came over and took the seat next to me.“Have a good time?” she asked with a wry grin on her face.
   “Mmm…” I hummed an answer.
   “The two of them give you a workout?”
   I just shrugged.“No comment.”
   “Ah, yes, the famous Ben reluctance to talk, even thougheveryone knows you just boned the Sanders twins.” Megan nodded. “Probably the only ‘nice guy’ quality you’ve got left.”
   “Hey, I always make sure the girl is satisfied,” I pointed out.
   “Your golden rule. That makes you a good lover, Ben; not a nice guy.” Megan sighed. “Enjoying your life, are you?”
   At first I was ready to nod enthusiastically, but I felt something inside me deflate. Yeah, messing around with the Sanders twins was hot, but it still lacked the emotional richness of that one afternoon with Summer. In fact, even though Abbie and Allie were friends I’d known for a long time, screwing them felt more like Donna or Stacey than anything really special. My chest deflated along with that mood and I sagged into my chair. “Well…” I stalled.
   “What, finding your sex life a little meaningless? A little empty?” Megan leaned over.
   I frowned and waggled my head. Megan had been one of my closest friends for nearly two years now and I didn’t feel the slightest hesitation in sharing my emotions with her, despite the trials of our breakup. “Well, yeah, a little. But… I get these urges, you know?”
   “Of course I know. Girls have hormones, too,” she shrugged.
   “But… uh, well, you don’t have to answer this,” I began. “But have you…?”
   Megan arched an eyebrow at me.“Have I had sex with anyone since you? No. I haven’t.”
   “Why not? I thought you loved sex.”
   “I do. But I can’t just fuck someone, Ben. It doesn’t work that way for me. Unlike you, I’m not ‘just a guy’. I have to have feelings for someone.” She sighed. “I tried… once… You don’t know him. He’s a guy from Chinese school. We went on a couple of dates and we started getting into things… but… the spark just wasn’t there. He was cute and all, but I didn’t even feel that much when I kissed him. And even though I was horny as hell, I could never be intimate with him.”
   I pinched my lips together and looked down at the ground. I sighed and murmured,“I’m sorry.”
   “For what?”
   “For… for everything, Megan. I really screwed up. I let my hormones get the best of me, and I ruined what we had. If I hadn’t, you’d still be having great sex and I’d still have the most caring girlfriend of my life.”
   Megan turned her head away from the light, casting her face half in shadow. Still, on the illuminated half, I saw the corner of her lip creep up in a smile.“You still think that about me?”
   I sighed.“I won’t disparage anyone else, but you were the most considerate and attentive girlfriend I ever had. You always listened and you knew my moods before I even had them half the time.”
   “I nagged you and bossed you around you mean, always trying to psychoanalyze your motives.” Megan grinned wryly.
   “Well, maybe a little,” I smiled. “But… well… you’ll always be my first girlfriend, Megan. Nothing can ever take that away.”
   “And you’ll always be my first… everything… Ben,” Megan sighed, then reached over and squeezed my hand.
   I looked at her in the dim light, our eyes connecting, and for a brief moment I wondered why I didn’t just get back together with Megan. I was unattached, tiring of life screwing whichever girl offered, and lonely at not having a girlfriend. They said that the main reason to have a girlfriend was to have a regular source for getting laid. Well I got laid regularly enough without the girlfriend. But there was no making up for the companionship and emotional attention.
   But then Megan turned her head away and released my hand.“Don’t take this the wrong way, Ben, but I’m happy we broke up.”
   My minor hopes fell.“Uh, really?”
   “Yeah. It made me grow up a bit. It made me look at the situation rationally. I might have gone through the rest of high school as your girlfriend, which would have been fine, but I wouldn’t have learned the control I have now. I’d like to think that getting my heart broken matured me a bit.”
   “Maturity. Hmph.” I shook my head. “Got anything to teach me?”
   Megan laughed.“Yeah, keep it in your pants until you realize the consequences of your actions. You’re just a teenager now, Ben. But sooner or later all that fucking around is going to catch up to you, one way or another. You’d better learn before that happens.”
   I exhaled. Consequences. I’d been telling myself that for a few months now. It made sense in theory, the whole look before you leap thing. But flash some tits in my face and reason flew out of my brain. All that was left was my other head. “I know, Megan. I know.”
   “You’re trying, I get that. But you don’t know yet. And when you do figure it out, gimme a call.” Megan stood up and turned away. But before she left, she looked back at me. “I’m still waiting for the boy I fell in love with.”* * *
   I only had a slight hangover on Saturday morning. Unfortunately, it was made worse by Eden and Emma hogging the TV with a Lizzie McGuire rerun on the Disney Channel and then blasting one of their Backstreet Boys CDs. There are few things more annoying in this world than two 11-year-olds singing“I Want it That Way”. I was only too happy to get out of the house for the school’s Graduation Ceremony.
   Summer, of course, was thrilled to see me. There was no awkward tension between us as I hugged her warmly in front of her parents and wished her luck at UCLA. We were a relationship that never was, and so there was nothing to regret.
   Adrienne was there as well, saying goodbye to her friends, and she gave me and Summer a funny look, although she didn’t comment. I ended up sitting with her and Lynne Arian during the ceremony itself, and it was one of the most awkward hours of my life. Lynne was friendly enough. But except for lunches with Summer, during which all my focus was on Summer herself, this was my first prolonged contact with Adrienne since our split.
   I found myself glancing at my gorgeous ex-girlfriend every minute or so, feeling the urge to hold her in my arms or otherwise initiate our old physical familiarity with each other. And from the way Adrienne would start leaning towards me for a few minutes before jerking herself away self-consciously, I presumed she also had some lingering feelings from our brief but intense relationship. After ten minutes, Adrienne finally just got up and switched seats with Lynne so that she wouldn’t have to sit next to me anymore. I understood how she felt.
   After the ceremony, Mizuho Nishioka actually grabbed my ass and pecked me. She left some sort of sparkly makeup on my cheek and only made it worse when she tried to rub it off.
   Candy Carter and Trevor Hansen thanked me for coming and said they’d be around since they were both attending UC Irvine, along with what seemed like a quarter of the graduating class.
   After the ceremony, I mingled around. Donna Kincaid slid her hand into my back pocket and told me she intended to cash in on her rain check for our missed rendezvous the past Monday. She also challenged me to guess whether or not she was wearing any clothes underneath her graduation gown. Since there was no sign of a shirt at her neckline and nothing but bare skin below the hemline, save for some strappy 3-inch heels, I started to imagine that she was indeed naked beneath the shimmering cloth. Donna turned away with a twinkle in her eyes, and if she was wearing shorts, they must have been pretty high cut because I still saw nothing but naked thigh through the slit in her gown as she walked.
   Shortly after, Stacey Whitehouse gave me a big hug and kissed my ear tenderly. I still had a hard-on from Donna and Stacey smiled as she ground herself against it, humming happily before releasing me and backing away. Lynne Arian happened to be nearby, and she shot me an odd glance before turning to continue her conversation with someone else.
   I even ran into Elyse Laughton, ex-Cheerleader Captain, who gave me a dirty look before spinning away to charm another cheerleader’s parents. I directed my conversation to one of the Senior guys who’d been in another class with me, but I couldn’t help overhearing Elyse inform the parents that she was going to Cal Berkeley in the fall. Something in the back of my head told me I’d be seeing the raven-haired beauty somewhere down the road.
   We all took pictures and everyone said their goodbyes. Even though most people would still be in town for a few months, there was a certain finality in knowing they would never return to the school as students again. And so there were many tears and many hugs all around, and then we all went our separate ways.
   I returned home and wound up lying down on my bed, staring at the ceiling. I would really miss Summer. But when I really thought about it, Donna and Stacey and the others were elements I didn’t really need in my life. I still had my old crew for friends. And with less distractions, maybe I could spend the next two weeks really figuring out what I wanted to do with my life, and the kind of people I wanted to spend that life with.
   And then come June 30th, it was off to summer camp… and Dawn. It would really be a time to get away from the real world, something I was greatly looking forward to. And when I returned in August, I would be a new man.
   At least, that was the plan.* * *
   Even though we’d just seen each other a couple days before, come Monday my high school friends organized to hit the beach. Our parents were at work for the day and we wanted a chance to let loose a bit.
   It was a smaller crew: me, Megan, Cassidy, Kenny and Rachel, Daniel and Elaine, Sung and Stephanie. Abbie and Allie were planning to come as well, but they canceled at the last minute. It was just as well. They’d both be on their periods by now and I knew never to question it if a girl felt weird during that one week out of every month. My sisters had taught me that much.
   Of course, with six people paired up into three couples, two of them still in the honeymoon phase, I quickly found myself alone with Megan and Cassidy. We all felt awkward for about three seconds, and then it was right back to being friends. Megan ribbed me about losing my harem and Cassidy alternated sneaking nostalgic stares at me and remembering her old comfortable familiarity with me.
   Now we nine weren’t the only ones on the beach. There were several other teenage coteries, many from other high schools, and one group of particularly attractive girls. Kenny, quite deliberately, led me with a frisbee toss right into the middle of them. And after catching the disc, I fell to the sand and found myself staring at quite the collection of tits.
   Grinning, I made small talk but then reminded myself to keep a lid on my libido and excused myself away. One cute brunette made a flippant comment to me about stopping by later but I tried to wall it away, and both Megan and Cassidy seemed to notice the change in my behavior compared with the past few months.
   I stuck to my“plan”. Yeah, I flirted with my two ex-girlfriends a little, but for the most part I kept my really perverted comments to myself. We chatted as friends and interacted comfortably, although I did let my mind wander every now and again to memories of when we were all together as a triple. And it wasn’t just me. Megan and Cassidy kept looking at me and then exchanging glances, as if evaluating whether or not I was changing for real.
   Eventually, it was time to head home and we packed up and left. And that afternoon, for the first time in a long while, I found myself taking matters into my own hands, envisioning the cute brunette from the beach as I jacked myself off into some tissues.
   The orgasm was just about relief. I didn’t need anything else. Next week, yeah, I’d probably boink the Sanders twins a couple of times, but then it was off to camp and Dawn and I vowed to myself to learn to keep my dick in my pants. My time with Summer and my conversations with Megan perpetually reminded me that sex with people I barely knew could be pleasurable, but only sex with people I cared about could really satisfy.* * *
   I went that entire first week of summer break without having sex. By Wednesday I was twitchy, suffering withdrawal symptoms. By Friday I was a wreck. And by the following Monday, I was going INSANE. Brooke wondered what the hell was wrong with me, and even Eden and Emma were staying away from me. I just hadn’t gone this long without getting laid in a LONG time, and even my magazines and my right hand weren’t cutting it.
   It didn’t help that Brooke had somehow picked up Brandi’s old exhibitionist streak. She was fifteen now and her developing body had certainly gotten a boost. She was in the middle of her growth spurt, something I realized with certainty the one time her towel slipped as she was crossing the hallway after a shower. I had just enough of a mental flash to boinking my older sister Brandi to give me a massive erection.
   Brooke had noticed her effect on me, and for the past two nights, she’d been shamelessly parading herself nearly-naked across the hall in a tease that reminded me so much of Brandi. My little sister kept the naughty bits covered up with towels or underwear, but just barely. And I couldn’t even look forward to a reunion with Brandi to quench the incestuous thoughts from my mind. She and Dayna had gotten summer internships at Berkeley and wouldn’t be coming home, not even joining us at camp that summer.
   I was going crazy with inner lust. I didn’t even have a specific target in mind. I just wanted to FUCK something. I was trying to be good and not get myself involved in casual hookups anymore, but I CRAVED to get laid. After all, I still had Donna’s number and figured she’d be up for a roll in the hay. If Donna wasn’t available, maybe Stacey wouldn’t be so averse to screwing for old time’s sake. And when I told myself that those weren’t healthy relationships and they were girls I didn’t really care about, my mind drifted away to Keira. She was still in her hunt for Mr. Right, and I thought it was certainly possible she hadn’t gotten a good lay in a LONG time herself.
   And where were the Sanders twins? It had been just over a week since the girls got their periods. Surely they’d be done by now and just itching to get it on, right? But for the entire Monday morning, they hadn’t called.
   So I held Donna’s and Stacey’s numbers in my hand. If I struck out twice, I resigned myself to visiting Keira. And reaching out with a twitchy hand, I got ready to make the call.
   But before I could grab the phone that Monday afternoon, it rang on its own. I stared at the thing dumbfounded for a minute before snagging it, answering a confused“Hello?”
   “Ben?” The voice was one of the Sanders twins. But from the ominous tone, she wasn’t calling for the expected booty call.
   “Yeah?”
   “It’s Abbie. Uh, we need to talk to you. Can you come over right now?”
   Whatever was going on, getting out of the house sounded like a good idea. So I answered immediately,“I’ll be right over.”* * *
   My first indication that something was wrong was that the Sanders twins were wearing baggy clothing that totally obscured their nubile bodies. It was cool in the house, but not cold enough to justify thick fleece pajama pants and long-sleeved tops. More telling were the obvious bra straps. The twins did not have sex on their minds.
   Also telling were the frightened looks in their eyes. Abbie escorted me into the living room where Allie was curled up on the couch and I seated myself into a chair facing them. The girls wouldn’t look me in the eye and we just kind of stared off for a few seconds before I leaned forward and asked, “What’s wrong?”
   Allie burst into tears just then, Abbie frowned and looked at her sister, and neither girl responded immediately. I bit my lip and looked back and forth between them, trying to understand what the hell was going on. And then Allie got her sobbing under control just enough to blurt,“I’m pregnant!”
   My eyes went wide. My hands felt clammy. And then I felt a dizzy sensation as inky blackness clouded over my vision and I surrendered myself to the blissful vacuum of unconsciousness.* * *
   I woke up on the floor to see Abbie hovering on top of me, waving a magazine in my face while I blinked rapidly. Somewhere behind her, I could still hear Allie crying. But Abbie had her focus on me as she asked,“You okay?”
   I blinked a few more times and then grunted,“I think so.” She backed away as I gingerly sat up and rubbed my head. Looking to my left, I saw that Allie was sobbing quietly with both her hands over her face. My mouth went dry and I remembered the last words she had spoken. And to Abbie, I asked, “Is she really pregnant?”
   Abbie sighed.“She’s more than a week late now. I’ve alreadyfinished my period. We had her take two different home tests. They both came up positive.”
   “How?” I croaked.
   Abbie rolled her eyes.“Well, you were there, remember? I think you know thehow, Ben,” she practically spat. “After all, this is YOUR fault!”
   “MY fault?”
   “You didn’t bring any condoms!” Abbie yelled at me.
   “I haven’t used a condom in months!” I yelled back as I elevated myself back up and onto the couch. “You were the ones planning this! You could have gotten on the pill!”
   “We didn’t have time! It was all so last second and as the boy, you should be prepared!” Abbie growled.
   “It’s YOUR body. Protect yourself. I was willing to back out, but you guys said you were safe!” I pointed a finger at Abbie and she blanched. “YOU told me you were safe! Three days until your period, right? Turned out more like seven, didn’t it? Or in Allie’s case, nine months!”
   Now Abbie cringed.“Well… I… I didn’t think anything would happen. All the books we read said we’d only be fertile for a couple of days right in the middle!”
   Allie just started bawling even louder.“Aaaaawwwwwwnnnnnggghhh!”
   I winced and put my face in my hands.“What do we do?”
   “You’re asking ME?” Abbie cried. “YOU’RE supposed to tell US what we’re supposed to do! You’re the big stud!”
   “No one ever got pregnant!” I yelled back.
   “AAAAAHHH!!!” Allie wailed so loud it got both our attentions. And only then did my panic subside enough for my protective instinct to kick in. I ignored Abbie and scooted right up to Allie, quickly wrapping the small girl up in my arms and rocking her back and forth like a baby.
   Allie shrunk away from me for a split-second, enough for me to consider letting go, but then she huddled herself more closely into my embrace and buried her face against my chest.
   “Shh…” I soothed. “I’m here, I’m here. We’ll work this out.”
   Abbie put her hands on her hips and glared at me.“How?”
   I waved my hand up and down impatiently.“I don’t know yet.”
   “She CAN’T have a baby, Ben,” Abbie insisted and Allie wailed at the very thought. “She’s too young. We have plans. Are you ready to be a daddy?”
   I winced.“Not really.”
   “Do you want to marry Allie and settle down?”
   “Well…” I drawled. I had no emotional feelings for Allie other than friendship and yeah, a little lust for her cute body. But marriage? “Let’s think this through.”
   Allie bawled,“I’m not ready!”
   “Okay, okay, Allie,” I rubbed her back. “We have options.”
   Abbie just set her mouth into a hard line and glared at me. And then she reached in and forcefully started tugging her little sister away from me.“You’re right, Ben. We’re the girls. It’s about OUR lives and OUR bodies. So they’re OUR options to discuss. Come on, Allie. Ben was just leaving.”
   Allie was still whimpering as Abbie pulled her from my grasp. I let go, looked up, and complained,“Don’t I have a say in this?”
   “Just get out, Ben. We’ll talk about this and make a decision,” Abbie glared as she started urging her sister away and out of the living room.
   I set my jaw and looked at her earnestly.“Abbie, I’ll do the right thing. I want to do the right thing. I’ll support her. I’ll pay medical costs. I’ll do whatever I have to do.”
   For the first time since I arrived, Abbie’s expression towards me softened. She took a deep breath and then exhaled slowly. “I believe you would, Ben. But we need to talk about this more. We called you just minutes after we got the results from the pregnancy tests, and we haven’t had time to let it all sink in.”
   I bit my lip and Abbie sighed, still holding a crying Allie against her shoulder. Then Abbie looked over at me and said,“Go home, Ben. Calm down and think it over. Come back tomorrow morning. We’ll talk then.”
   And then Abbie led her twin sister away.* * *
   The shiny Jetta pulled into the driveway as the garage door went up. The driver saw me sitting on the front steps and she waved before going inside and lowering the garage door.
   A minute later, the front door swung open. Keira folded her arms over her chest, leaning against the door jamb and smiling at me.“Hi, Ben.”
   “Uh, hey,” I stammered and looked at the floor.
   She immediately stepped closer and put her hand on my shoulder.“Ben, what’s wrong?”
   “I, uh… I think I’m in a little bit of trouble,” I frowned.
   Keira nodded in sympathy and waved me inside, directing me towards the living room. I sat on the couch. She took a wing chair opposite me and leaned forward.“So what kind of trouble are you into, Ben?”
   I bit my lip and stared downward. Twice, I started saying“I…” Both times, I couldn’t actually get the words out. It was as if saying them would make it more… real. And I didn’t want it to be real.
   She waited for me patiently, and eventually I managed to blubber,“I got a girl pregnant.”
   Keira’s eyes flew open and she put a hand over her mouth to cover her gasp of surprise. But she recovered quickly and leaned over, grabbing my hand and squeezing it gently. Her eyebrows furrowed as she ran through a gamut of questions in her head before asking, “May I ask who?”
   “Allie… Allison Sanders. She’s a girl in my class at school.”
   Keira nodded her head up and down as she searched through her memory. I’d talked about my friends with her a few times and she had a vague sense of the girls around me. “She has a twin sister?”
   I nodded.“Abbie… Abigail. She’s not pregnant.”
   Keira’s eyebrows went up. “But you’ve had sex with her, too. Haven’t you?”
   I winced.“They wanted me to take their virginities at the same time. They told me they were safe. I guess Allie wasn’t.”
   Keira planted her chin into her palm and frowned, looking down and away for a moment. And then she looked up at me and said,“Tell me everything.”* * *
   A little over a half-hour later, Keira shook her head and rubbed her temples.“Ben, when I said to step back from relationships and figure out what you wanted, I didn’t mean to have casual sex with half a dozen girls with no commitment.”
   I’d started by telling her everything about Abbie and Allie, from their proposition to Megan’s warning to the night itself. She didn’t need the gory details, but she wanted to know the decisions that had gotten me there.
   It felt cathartic to pour everything out to her, so I’d kept going. I talked about Adrienne wanting to keep our relationship intact but my sleeping with Donna after I’d thought Adrienne had broken up with me. I told Keira about the booty calls with Stacey and Mandy. And I told her about all the emotions involved with Summer.
   And when I was done, Keira looked at me still shaking her head.“Think you understand any more about love?”
   I frowned.“Just that there’s a big difference between sex and love. I feel like I’ve had the least sexual contact with Summer, and yet being with her and just holding her in my arms is the closest I’ve felt to love since Adrienne.”
   Keira canted her head to the side.“Well, that’s something at least.” She sighed. “And how do you feel about Allie?”
   I frowned.“I… she’s sweet… and she’s cute…”
   “But…” Keira led me.
   I sighed.“But there’s no spark between us. There’s plenty of mutual lust and they’re very enthusiastic in bed. But I don’t think there’s anything romantic. They just wanted to experience sex and I was the logical candidate. I don’t think they looked at me as boyfriend material and even though I’ve known them for years, I never really considered them as long-term relationship targets.”
   Keira’s eyebrows went up. “I asked about Allie, not ‘them’.”
   I arched an eyebrow.
   Keira sighed.“You still think of them as a pair. Doing twins probably got you off, but you don’t even really think of Allie as an individual girl. And if you’re not thinking of her that way, then there’s no WAY you can even consider settling down and marrying her. Even if you think it’s the right thing for the baby, it’s the WRONG thing for both of you.”
   “But if she keeps the baby, aren’t I responsible for supporting her?”
   Keira shrugged.“Yes, you’d have to. But this is 2001, not 1951. You can support her and be a part of the baby’s life without marrying Allie.”
   I shook my head.“And what if she doesn’t want to keep the baby? Put it up for adoption or… or… uh, abort it?”
   “How do you feel about that? Abortion?” Keira looked at me intently.
   I wilted under her gaze, feeling the moral tug telling me that abortion is wrong, etc., etc. But I also considered how much a baby would fuck up my life, and Allie’s as well. “It would be easier…”
   “But could you live with yourself if you talked her into aborting it?”
   “I…” I sighed. “I don’t know. How could I possibly know? I’ve never aborted a baby before.”
   Keira nodded.“First mature thing you’ve said in an hour,” she chuckled.
   I buried my face in my hands and groaned. It was all just too much pressure. I wasn’t ready. I’d always known this was how babies were made, but I never thought this would actually happen to me. Didn’t we live in a time of easy birth control? Would I have to drop out of school and get a job? Would I not be able to go to college? Would I end up having to marry Allie and livethe rest of my life with a girl I didn’t feel “that way” about? Would I lose all of my friends? Would my parents execute me?
   It was all too much. My head hurt and I felt tears welling up inside me. Whimpering and shaking, I squeezed my own temples and pleaded,“Tell me, Keira. Tell me what to do.”
   She sighed and patted the back of my head, rubbing my neck soothingly.“I’m sorry, Ben. I can’t just tell you. That’s something you’ve got to figure out for yourself. It’s the only way you’ll ever mature.”* * *
   I was practically catatonic for the rest of the day. I went to my room and no matter who was banging on the door, I refused answer it. Eventually, my mom got the master key and my parents let themselves in.
   “Ben, what’s wrong?” Mom asked.
   “I don’t want to talk about it.”
   “Honey, you know you can tell us anything.”
   Not this. Not until I had a better idea of what my plan was, a plan I hadn’t even started conceiving just yet. I didn’t even bother to answer my mom; I just turned my head and looked away from her.
   I heard her sigh.“Ben, come down to dinner.”
   I stared away.
   “Ben,” Dad said in a stern voice. “Listen to your mother.”
   “I’m not hungry,” I answered.
   “Ben,” Mom began again.
   “Just leave me alone, please?”
   The way my head was tilted, I couldn’t actually see my parents. But in my dark room, their shadows were cast on the far wall by the hallway light behind them, and I could see their heads turn together as they exchanged some sort of communication. And then the two of them just turned around and left. Thankfully, they closed the doorbehind them.
   Sometime in the late evening, well after my parents had gone to sleep, I was still sitting up in bed, contemplating the nature of my existence. I heard a light knock at my door, and still in my own little world, I didn’t answer. No matter, a few seconds later, it began to swing open. My parents had not re-locked the door and I stared impassively as the hallway illumination spilled into my bedroom.
   “Ben?” Brooke called softly as she came into view, wearing nothing but a towel wrapped around her torso. Her hair was damp as she was just out of the shower, and I couldn’t help but notice how her growing curves stretched out the towel in very specific places. Silhouetted by the light behind her, I couldn’t make out her features very well, and for a brief moment I thought it was Brandi standing before me. My little sister was certainly growing up.
   I didn’t answer but just stared impassively. Brooke looked startled when she saw me sitting up in bed like a statue, my unyielding gaze aimed right at her. But I didn’t move.
   Curious, Brooke waved her hand up and down, as anyone does in front of someone who appears to be staring off at nothing. She switched to waving both arms, and again asked a hesitant,“Ben? Are you okay?”
   She flipped the light switch on the wall, forcing me to blink a few times against the blinding light now filling my bedroom. Brooke visibly relaxed when she realized I was at least alive, even if I wasn’t responsive. She approached the bed, walking up until she was just a few feet away from me. I kept my gaze forward, so that she was standing just to the left in my peripheral vision.
   Again, Brooke did the hand waving thing in front of my eyes. I blinked, but I didn’t turn my gaze. Why should I? I just didn’t feel like it. Eventually, she’d give up and go away, leaving me in peace.
   But she didn’t give up right away. Brooke snapped her fingers a couple of times in front of my nose, to no response. Then she actually pushed on my shoulder a few times, forcing my body to wave but in the end, I returned to my original position, still staring off a thousand yards ahead of me.
   “Ben… you’re starting to scare me,” she said in a quivering voice, sounding more like a frightened child than a nearly full-grown young woman.
   I just blinked and didn’t answer her.
   In the corner of my eye, I saw Brooke fidgeting, trying to decide what to do next. I just breathed slowly… in and out… I simply didn’t care. And then in my peripheral vision, I saw Brooke take a deep breath, then reach up and flip open the tuck in her towel between her breasts.
   The terrycloth quickly slid down her body, puddling at her ankles. My little sister’s tight, toned, barely 15-year-old body came into view. She had a golden tan and a rich glow from the shower. Her dark hair was damp and slicked back behind her. Her breasts were healthy mounds now, decent handfuls that again reminded me of Brandi. And what finally got a reaction out of me was when I realized that her pussy was completely bare-shaven. Overall, Brooke was growing up into a babe, just like her older sister.
   I gulped and Brooke smiled as she realized she’d gotten SOME reaction out of me. Her nipples hardened and I started to hear her breathing heavily. But I still wanted to ward away the world. And so maintaining my thousand-yard stare, I said in a low voice, “Brooke, put some clothes on.”
   “Ben…”
   “Out. Now.” My voice was a growl and she knew I was serious. Frowning, Brooke bent and scooped up her towel, trapping it against the front of her torso as she scurried out of my room without closing the door behind her. I couldn’t help but let my eyes twitch over to stare at her tight ass as she ran away.
   It took me a few minutes to will away my arousal and let my cock go limp again. I hadn’t had sex in a LONG time (for me) and even though I’d had sex with Brandi, that didn’t make it right for me to lust after Brooke. Hell, she was only fifteen. Eventually, I got myself under control and only then did I stand up, close my bedroom door, and return to bed.
   All I had left to do was wait. There were still several hours before I could go to Abbie and Allie and really discuss with them our futures.
   I didn’t get any sleep that night.* * *
   I managed to wait until 9am before arriving at the Sanders residence. My eyes were bloodshot and despite taking a shower and changing my clothes, I felt dirty and greasy inside, as if the exhaustion of my all-nighter was seeping through my skin.
   Abbie answered the door wearing the baggy fleece pants and long-sleeved top again. Her eyes were rimmed red as well, but she just had a fierce look of conviction on her face. She took one look at me and said,“Come in.” And then she turned and walked upstairs.
   I closed the door behind me and followed Abbie up to the twins’ bedroom. The familiar sight of the blue and green side-by-side beds brought back so many memories of that night I took their virginities. But instead of two horny, cocktail dress-wearing young women, I now faced two shell-shocked teenagers. Allie was still in bed, underneath the covers and staring at the ceiling. She looked as catatonic as I’d been last night.
   Abbie moved over and sat down on her bed. I found the spare chair, the same one where one twin would sit and watch while I deflowered the other. I took a deep breath and started to speak,“Girls, I—”
   “We took care of it,” Abbie cut me off.
   I didn’t understand right away. “Huh?”
   Abbie gave me a stern look, but she started breathing hard as her heartbeat accelerated.“It’s over. It was my fault in the first place. I knew our periods weren’t for another week but I lied because I wanted to lose my virginity. I never even gave Allie the chance to back out once we knew you didn’t have any condoms. Or I could have asked you to go to the store or home or wherever to get some. Hell, I could have let you pull out instead of demanding to feel you cum inside of me. But I was horny and impatient. I didn’t think we were in our fertile time. My fault. My responsibility. I had to make a decision.”
   My eyebrows pinched in as I started to understand.
   Abbie took a deep breath and looked away from me.“So I took my little sister to the clinic and we aborted the baby. It’s over.”
   I was stunned. Not that I was looking forward to being a teenaged parent, but I’d thought I’d at least get the chance to discuss the issue. Wasn’t that the point? Sleep on it for a day and think about consequences and our futures? “But… but…”
   “It’s done, Ben. You’re off the hook.”
   My gaze flicked over to Allie, who was still in bed but now looking at me intently.“Allie…” I said softly, sympathetically. Only she could know how I felt in this moment. I didn’t really WANT to have a baby, but at the same time, there was something inside her with a beating heart that was part ME. And now it was gone. “I’m so sorry.”
   “I know, Ben,” Allie said in a weak voice. “I know… But it was my decision.”
   I bit my lip and pushed away the thoughts of an embryo. I focused on the girl I’d impregnated, even if only for a little while. And I got off the chair and went to kneel next to her. Tenderly, I put my hand on top of her head and rubbed lightly. “How are you?”
   She gave me a small smile.“I’m okay. I’m sad…” she sniffled. “But I’m okay.”
   Still biting my lip, I closed my eyes and nodded. I felt an overwhelming sense of relief along with a deep sense of loss. Something big and profound had happened in my life. I’d mentally reminded myself of the concept of consequences for my actions over the past few months. I’d told myself to think before I put my dick inside a girl, and I worried about all the emotional attachments and heartbreaks and jealousies that flared up around sex. But somehow, I’d never stopped to consider THE primary consequence of sex. I’d never stopped to consider pregnancy. And now it had stared me right in the face.
   I’d gotten EXTREMELY lucky, I knew that. Even if I wasn’t sure it was the outcome I would have wanted, given my own moral compass, it was an outcome that was probably the logical best thing for me.
   And yet I’d also lost a human part of me. I’d created life… life that wasn’t there anymore. It was a crushing loss that I wasn’t expecting to feel, and it weighed down on my heart like an anchor. Unbidden, I started crying. And as the seconds ticked by, the stream of tears intensified and gradually turned into wracking sobs.
   I felt someone stroking my back and realized that my face was on Allie’s chest. She was crying as well and holding me, her hands running up and down my spine. Her soft brown eyes stared deep into my soul, recognizing the same pain she felt herself. And together, the would be mom and dad mourned for our loss.
   What felt like ages later, Abbie handed me some tissues and I wiped up my face. Allie cleaned herself up as well and gave me a look of apology, as if somehow she were at fault for what had happened. I shook my head in the negative without knowing if there was a question to respond to, and then gently taking Allie’s face in my hands I bent and gave her a soft kiss.
   She whimpered into my mouth and kissed back for the brief seconds we were joined, and then I pulled away and stood up. For the rest of our lives, Allison Sanders and I would be bonded together by what had happened to us. No matter what happened in our futures, we would always have this shared part of our past.
   I felt sort of guilty, like I had stolen some part of Allie from her sister. After all, for twin sisters who had shared everything together, clothes and toys and even the loss of their virginities, I was now responsible for something that distinctly separated them. Allie now had an experience that Abbie couldn’t share, not exactly.
   But at the moment, all three of us just seemed to be both relieved and in shock at the resolution. Abbie went to sit on the green bed with her sister, Allie scooting over so that she could lay her head in the older twin’s lap. We all stared back and forth at each other for a few minutes, wondering what to do now.
   I broke the ice by asking,“Is there anything you need from me?”
   Abbie replied,“No. We’re okay.”
   A thought came to me.“How much did it cost?” I quickly dug out my wallet.
   Abbie shook her head.“Don’t worry about it.”
   I grabbed every bill I had and thrust it at Abbie.“Please. I promised to support her in any way. This is the very least of things I’m responsible for.”
   Abbie sighed and took the money then tossed it onto a nightstand.“Just… don’t forget about us, okay? Don’t be one of those guys who ignores us like we’re somehow… unclean… afterwards.”
   “Never,” I insisted and looked to Allie. “Never,” I said again. I felt relieved when Allie nodded in acceptance of my declaration. “I’m still Ben. I’m your friend. I could never be like that.”
   Abbie nodded, seeming confident in her belief that I wasn’t really a bad guy. After all, wasn’t that one of the reasons they’d wanted me to deflower them in the first place?
   I felt a powerful need to be there for the girls in the aftermath. I felt like I HAD to show them, prove to them that I would still be their friend. But then I was reminded of where I was going in a few days.“I, uh, I still have this summer camp thing for a month. But I can come back tomorrow.”
   Abbie sighed and shook her head with pain in her eyes.“What for? It’s over. There’s nothing more to discuss.”
   I winced.
   Allie looked up.“Ben, you’re leaving on Saturday, right?”
   I nodded.
   Allie continued,“Just give us this week to… to just be… We need some time to ourselves, okay? A lot has happened lately and we just need to slow everything down.”
   I nodded in understanding. I was sooo looking forward to camp and just getting away from my life here.
   “But when you come back,” Allie continued, her golden brown eyes shining at me. “Give us a call, okay?”
   I nodded.“I promise.”* * *
   I didn’t drive home right away. Instead, I went up into the foothills, back to a spot I remembered from my days with Megan and Cassidy. From up there, I could see across Laguna Beach and to the ocean. Feeling the breeze and watching the ebb and flow of the tides, it was like being at the beach, only without any other people around.
   I was bone tired, but I still couldn’t sleep. I thought of what my baby might have looked like. I thought of what my life would have been like. And the tears started rolling down my cheeks again.* * *
   Because I passed out just after dinner on Tuesday night, exhausted from being awake for thirty-five-odd hours, I woke up really early on Wednesday. I didn’t feel like being lost to my thoughts anymore; and my room was too quiet. So I went downstairs and fired up the Playstation.
   I was still mindlessly gaming when Eden and Emma gave me goodbye pecks on the cheeks before they left to go hang out with friends for the day. And I was still a zombie with a controller on the couch when the doorbell rang and Brooke invited her boyfriend Perry Anderson in.
   The teenage couple greeted each other with wet kisses before Perry saw me. I glanced over and he said,“Oh, hey Ben. What’s up?”
   I nodded and then Perry started whispering, although his voice was panicked and loud enough for me to still hear.“What’s your brother doing here? I thought he left most every day?”
   “Forget him,” Brooke replied in a full voice, uncaring if I overheard. “He’s got some girl problems and he’s been out of it for the past couple of days.”
   Perry was still whispering loud enough for me to hear.“But I thought we’d have the house to ourselves.”
   “Relax. He’s not going to walk in on us. Mmm…” Brooke hummed. “Actually, it kinda turns me on to think my big bro might catch us,” she giggled.
   “Brooke!” Perry husked in that panicked voice, but he let my sister take his hand and tug him up the stairs towards Brooke’s bedroom.
   I rolled my eyes and focused on my video game. I remembered what it was like to be fifteen and I didn’t begrudge Brooke the explorations of her sexuality (as long as they weren’t too focused on me). I knew she needed to experiment a little with boys and I was pretty sure she was still a virgin. Of course, I hadn’t been paying that much attention lately… and she WAS shaving her pubes…
   I frowned, feeling the big brother overprotectiveness kicking in. She WAS still a virgin, wasn’t she? I mean, I didn’t pop my cherry until I was sixteen, and Brooke had only turned fifteen last month. She still hadn’t even given a blowjob back in January. And she wouldn’t DARE do anything really outrageous with me in the house, would she?
   Consequences. There were always consequences. It was something I hadn’t really learned for myself until just now, so surely Brooke wasn’t really considering them either. After all, isn’t it just human nature for a 15-year-old to let their hormones do their thinking for them?
   But no, Brooke was a smart girl. She knew she was cute and she was quite popular with the boys in her class (not to mention the boys from upper classes). She didn’t have to put out or anything just for attention and she certainly wouldn’t be so cavalier with her body with just anybody.
   Then again, Perry wasn’t just anybody. Brooke had been dating him since what, November? From my memory of teenagers, boys didn’t stick around for eight months unless there was SOME progress. Just how far had my little sister let him get?
   I tried to focus on my video game. But after a while, my mind’s constant wanderings into speculation on what Brooke was doing upstairs completely disrupted my concentration and I just shut off the damn console in frustration. I let out a long exhalation, and then I got up off the couch.
   I wasn’t going to spy on them or anything. I just wanted to wander by my little sister’s bedroom door and make sure I didn’t hear anything… alarming.
   As expected, I could see from the top of the stairs that Brooke’s door was closed. And taking care to be as quiet as possible, I tiptoed down the hallway. I had enough practice going back and forth after my parents had gone to sleep to know how to be quiet on that hallway.
   But when I got to the door, I found that it wasn’tcompletely closed. And my ears were quickly assaulted by the groaning moans and wet smacks of a young couple in the throes of passion.
   “Ohhh, Perry…” Brooke moaned before I heard the mattress shift.
   “Shhh… you don’t want your brother to hear,” he shushed her.
   Yeah, that qualified as“alarming” in my book.
   The door was open just a crack and with both the light pouring through Brooke’s bedroom window and the darkness of the hallway, I was pretty sure I could remain unseen. So crouching down, I put one knee to the floor and then leaned in, aiming my eye through the small opening.
   It wasn’t QUITE as bad as I’d been expecting, but it was pretty close. Brooke was lying back across her bed, her shirt up around her neck with her bra undone. Perry was alternately kissing her lips and her breasts, both nipples wet and reflecting the sunlight from the window. Lower down, Brooke’s shorts and panties were around her knees as Perry slowly rubbed his fingers over her naked pussy. And my little sister moaned into her boyfriend’s mouth as he pleasured her body.
   I fought down a moan of my own. I’d briefly glimpsed Brooke naked once before, but in my morose and depressed state, I hadn’t paid very much attention to her. Yeah, I noticed things, but I was also interested in getting her dressed and out of my room.
   But this time, I had no choice but to see Brooke as a sexy young woman. When she turned her head to passionately kiss Perry, I couldn’t see her face and all I was left with was a nubile teenage body without a trace of fat, perky round breasts, and a delicate swell of hips. I knew I should turn away and give Brooke her privacy, but I just couldn’t do it.
   Meanwhile, Brooke also had her hand in Perry’s shorts, jerking him rhythmically. Once, it looked like Brooke was about to bring her boyfriend over the edge as he tensed up and started pleading with her to “Stop-stop-stop-stop-stop!”
   She pulled her hand out. Perry exhaled. And one accident was averted. Brooke giggled and kissed her boyfriend.
   When they pulled apart, Perry leaned in and asked,“You want me to lick you again?”
   Brooke’s eyes lit up and she nodded her head. “Please.” Then the two teenagers quickly separated and hurriedly removed excess clothing while getting into position. Brooke got herself completely naked, kicking away her bottoms before whipping her tops over her head. Perry grinned and followed suit before sliding down the bed and lying on his stomach between Brooke’s legs.
   I felt my own jaw dropping as I watched Brooke spreading her legs wide, opening up her cute, tight pussy. The hairless labia were firmly pressed together, having never been stretched in her lifetime, and I groaned at the arousing sight of my 15-year-old sister putting herself in such an intimately vulnerable position. And then my view was blocked as Perry moved his face down.
   Brooke scrunched her face up in confusion for a little bit. Every now and again Perry would do something right and she’d moan or sigh happily, but the boy seemed to be doing a lot of fumbling down there. I wondered if that was what my life would have been like if Keira hadn’t taught me. But just then, Perry did something really right and Brooke arched her back off the bed and moaned for a second.
   Turned on beyond belief, I couldn’t help but groan myself, instantly clapping my hand over my mouth once I realized I’d made a noise. But with Brooke’s thighs around his head, Perry didn’t notice.
   Brooke, however, did. Her gaze flashed over to the door, her eyes narrowing as she tried to determine if she’d heard something or not. And then to my surprise, a wide smile crossed her face. She giggled and very deliberately winked at me.
   I still wasn’t sure if she could see me. Based on the light I imagined that she couldn’t. But whether she knew or guessed my presence, it seemed clear that she didn’t mind. In fact, my little sister kept her gaze right on the door as she began undulating her hips against Perry’s face and moaning up a storm.
   “Yes! Yes!” she panted. “Lick me, baby! Stick that tongue into my tight cunt! Lick me!”
   Perry was quite energized by the encouragement, and he seemingly didn’t mind Brooke’s hand grasping his hair and physically moving him around to where she wanted him.
   “Yes! Yessss,” Brooke crooned. “Oh, eat me! Eat me, baby!”
   Perry popped up to breathe and exclaimed,“Wow! I’ve never seen you this turned on before!”
   “Shut up and eat!” Brooke slammed his head back down into her crotch, redirecting her boyfriend to his task. But when she moaned, she did so while staring right at me.
   Perry popped his head up again.“Keep it down! I don’t want your brother barging in on us.”
   “Don’t worry,” Brooke giggled and glanced towards me and the crack in the door. “Ben’s cool. He doesn’t mind.” And then she shoved his face back into her crotch. Perry went right back to work, and after another minute of oral attention, my little sister threw her head back and screamed her orgasm.
   It was a thing of beauty. Her back arched, her hips quivered, and my sister’s skin glowed with its own inner illumination. I had long thought Brooke was just too young for sexual things, not old enough nor mature enough. But not any longer. My little sister was a young woman now. And she had young woman urges.
   I used to get the impression that Brooke wanted to learn about sex and blowjobs out of a childlike curiosity, as if sex were a cool new toy she wanted to play with. But now her body had developed, she was flush with hormones, and she had the arousal and cravings to match. Maybe I hadn’t lost my cherry until I was sixteen, but then they do say girls develop faster than boys. My little sister truly had the sex drive of a young woman now.
   Brooke had no sooner finished her orgasm than Perry was suddenly on top of her, bracing himself on his elbows above her while he nudged his hips in between her legs.“Please, Brooke. Can we?”
   I held my breath. Had she already had full intercourse?
   “No, you know I’m not ready, Perry.”
   “Please? I’m dying here,” the boy whined. “You’ve been holding out on me for weeks!”
   “I’m not ready for sex yet, Perry!” Brooke insisted.
   “Come ON, Brooke!” Perry moaned. “Arman’s already done it with Erin!”
   “I’m not Erin!”
   “I know… you’re so much hotter than Erin. I can’t help it, baby. I want to be INSIDE of you.”
   “Don’t force me, Perry. C’mon. Lemme give you a blowjob, okay?”
   Dejected but willing, the boy rolled over onto his back. His eyes were locked onto Brooke’s face as she rolled over and knelt over his prick, which waved upright like a plant seeking the sun. For a 15-year-old, Perry had a decent cock. It was long and skinny, like him. And then I watched the shaft slowly disappearing as my sister’s mouth descended around it.
   Brooke wasn’t much of a cocksucker. She didn’t know much more than sucking while bobbing her head up and down. She didn’t use her hands except to brace them on the mattress, and there wasn’t much variety in her strokes. Apparently, she hadn’t seen THAT much of Brandi doing it to me, and Brandi hadn’t taught her THAT much in the subsequent dildo-instruction session.
   Not that Perry minded Brooke’s relative lack of expertise. He was in seventh heaven, just laying back and enjoying the sensations. He gave Brooke no direction or hints, just soaking up whatever she did without visible reaction. Every now and again his hips bucked upwards involuntarily, so she must have been doing something right, but I couldn’t help but envision properly teaching my little sister how to give a blowjob like she’d always wanted me to and THEN seeing what she was capable of.
   As it was, after the first five minutes, Brooke DID start experimenting. She brought her hand around to pump him while she licked the head like an ice cream cone. She kept glancing over to me as if unsure if I was still there and watching, the look in her eyes more questioning than certain of my presence. And she also attempted to deep-throat Perry, pushing herself further down and trying to breathe through her nose before her gag reflex kicked in and she came up coughing.
   This happened three times before she turned her head away and fought the urge to puke. Clearly, she’d pushed herself beyond what she was ready for and tried to gamely stroke Perry’s prick in her hand while recovering her breath.
   But Perry could feel the drop-off in stimulation and he picked his head up with a complaining look on his face.“Aww…” he whined.
   “Sorry,” Brooke choked out. “I just can’t do it.”
   Perry got a little smile on his face as he pulled his girlfriend towards him and rolled her onto her back.“That’s okay, baby. I love you.”
   Brooke smiled happily and said back,“I love you, too.” I could actually SEE her thighs spread wider as Perry gave her the three-word magic phrase, always the key to unlocking a girl’s vagina.
   “Mmm… I love you,” Perry repeated. “That’s why I want to be with you so badly. I want to be inside you.” He suited words to action as he slid over her body again, nudging his pelvis in between her legs. If I had to guess, his erection was lying right on top of Brooke’s pussy mound.
   Then Perry got a funny look in his eyes.“It’s okay if you can’t finish me off with your mouth, Brooke-baby. Just let me inside you and I’ll love you more than ever.” He started retracting his hips, gliding his cock downward across her vaginal cleft.
   “No…” Brooke frowned and then repeated, “I’m not ready yet.”
   “C’mon, baby. You’re leaving me in just a few days. I won’t see you for a whole month! Don’t you love me? Can’t you give me this to remember you by?” Perry’s hips stopped their retraction and I saw his buttcheeks tighten as he prepared himself for the forward lunge.
   Brooke gasped and rolled her head back. I imagined Perry now had his cock lined up with my little sister’s pussy, and with the application of a little force, he could push his way inside.
   “Perry, no,” Brooke moaned, her face flushed, but she didn’t roll her hips away from his cock. She was clearly aroused and her hormones were screaming at her to let him in, but a part of her still hesitated. Consequences. Was she thinking of the consequences?
   My eyes popped open as that big, long C-word entered MY head. It had been extremely arousing to watch Brooke and Perry engaging in their oral play and as I watched them moving into position for intercourse, I’d still felt quite turned on. But now, as I realized Perry was maneuvering his bare, naked, unsheathed cock at my little sister’s bare, naked, unprotected pussy, fear set into my heart.
   No. They couldn’t. Brooke could NOT make the same mistake I did with Allie. When was her last period? Did Mom put her on the pill? Oh, SHIT! I started to get to my feet.
   “Don’t you love me?” Perry moaned and I saw his buttcheeks clench tightly as he started pressing forward.
   “Perry, no!” Brooke whimpered as she rolled her hips, now trying to get herself out of the way, but he’d already settled his weight onto her pelvis, preventing her from moving. In a more panicked voice, she shrieked, “Perry, NO!”
   “Yes!” Perry grunted as he rammed his hips forward.
   “NO!!!” Brooke screamed and bucked herself wildly, twisting to the side. And then she screamed, “BEN!!!”
   I’d already busted the door open and taken two steps into the bedroom by the time my little sister yelled my name. Perry saw me in the corner of his eye and started shrinking away, muttering “Ohshit.”
   He was too late as I launched myself at him with arms outstretched, tackling his smaller body and yanking him off the bed as we tumbled to the floor. We hit the floor with a painful thud, both of us rolling over a few times while scrabbling for a good hold.
   “SONOFABITCH!” I yelled as I got up to my knees. Perry was sprawled sideways in front of me and his torso was completely unprotected when my right fist slammed into his side just above his kidneys.
   He screamed and lashed out at me with one leg, his knee glancing off my arm. My left fist thrust out and hit him in the chest before he managed to slap my cheek. And then I lunged forward and pinned his belly beneath my knee while I smacked him on the side of his head, dazing him.
   Perry probably stood 5’8” and weighed a skinny 130, far smaller than my near six-feet and 180 pounds. He wasn’t moving anywhere as I kept him trapped beneath my knee and he simply used his arms to try and keep me from hitting his head too hard.
   But then all of a sudden Perry shrieked and stiffened up. It was the agonizing howl of pain that men around the world could hear and wince at, because Brooke had circled around, taken aim between his legs, and delivered the swift kick of female vengeance on the poor kid’s testicles.
   I even winced in sympathy, and that took the fight right out of me. I lifted my knee and stepped back, letting Perry curl into a fetal position to cradle his abused balls.
   With tears streaming down her cheeks and eyes downcast, Brooke walked straight over to me and wrapped herself against my side, both of us completely ignoring her nudity. She buried her face into my chest, sobbing quietly, and I rocked her slowly.
   Eventually, Perry managed to open his eyes and turned his gaze up to me. I glared at him with undisguised hatred and he quailed, fully expecting me to let go of Brooke and start beating the shit out of him again.
   I wanted to. I started to release my sister, but she clutched at my clothes in terror and Perry got his reprieve as I was unwilling to let go of her. And the horny boy managed to crawl over to his clothes and then limp out the bedroom door. I didn’t expect to see him again anytime soon.
   Brooke’s sniffling calmed down once Perry was gone. I leaned over and gently pressed my lips to her forehead. She shivered and then let out a long exhalation, still shuddering in my grasp.
   “You okay?” I asked softly.
   She didn’t answer verbally, but nodded her head up and down.
   Wincing, I managed to croak out my next question, my heart filled with dread.“Did he… uh… did he?”
   Brooke started to shake her head‘no’, then reached down between her own legs, feeling around and pressing a finger into her channel. She bit her lip and then looked up at me with a faint smile on her face. And then she shook her head in a full negative.
   I sighed, visibly relaxing. And then I said softly,“I’m sorry, Brooke. I should have stopped him sooner.”
   She shook her head.“Not your fault, Ben.” She sniffled and then rubbed herself more tightly against me. I became acutely aware of her nakedness, feeling the hard points of her nipples poking into me. “It was my fault. I let things get out of hand.”
   We were both quiet for a minute, me stroking her spine gently while Brooke huddled herself in my arms. And then I asked,“Did you know I was watching?”
   I felt her tremble and when she looked up at me, she was blushing.“I was hoping you would. That’s why I left the door open a crack.”
   I arched an eyebrow at my sister.“You did?”
   She turned bright red.“It really did turn me on to think of you watching. The whole time he was licking me, I was imagining it was you, Ben.” Brooke sighed. “Brandi told me you were the best lover she ever had.”
   I bit my lip and willed away the naughty images flooding my mind. It wasn’t easy, given that I was holding the naked object of my momentary fantasies.
   “And when Perry wanted to put it in me, part of me was imagining it was you. And I wouldn’t have minded that, Ben. I wouldn’t have minded if you wanted to put yourself inside me,” she said in a quiet voice. “Maybe that’s why I let him get so close.”
   THAT certainly didn’t help my libido. And if this was Winter Break, and I was the same young boy who’d eagerly had sex with my sister Brandi, I might have just rolled Brooke onto her back and done my best to fulfill her fantasy. But I wasn’t that same boy anymore. The Ben I was today was cognizant of the fact that Brooke had very nearly gotten raped, and she was in a really messed up emotional state at this moment. And as her big brother, it was my responsibility to keep a level head.
   “Brooke,” I began. “There’s a big part of me that wants to do that, but I won’t. If we did, there would be consequences. It’s not as simple as finding pleasure and having some fun. There are ALWAYS consequences.”
   “I love you, Ben.” With eyes shining, Brooke tilted her head and turned her gaze up to me. “I love you. And what if I’m okay with those consequences?”
   I gritted my teeth, forcing away my arousal. And after closing my eyes and taking a deep breath, I gave a lot of thought before making any decisions to put my dick inside of Brooke, a cute, sexy 15-year-old girl. And when I opened my eyes, that urge was gone. It was just me— bigbrother Ben — and my little sister.
   I hugged her firmly, platonically, not going anywhere near her naughty bits. And once again I kissed her forehead tenderly.“C’mon, Brooke. Put some clothes on. And then let’s open up a tub of ice cream or something.”
   She smiled and nodded. Soon we both would get away from the real world and make a fresh start.
   Chapter 18: DestinySATURDAY, JUNE 30, 2001
   Four weeks of camp. Almost a month away from the real world. No email. No IMing. Probably not any phone calls. No more seeing Megan, Cassidy, and Adrienne on a daily basis to remind me how much I’d sabotaged my own happiness. No seeing Abbie and Allie to remind me that this wasn’t just a game and how close I’d come to ruining my life. Sure, I’d miss my friends. But I needed a break.
   Last year, I couldn’t read in the family van while we cruised up Highway 5 towards Northern California. My growth spurt was wreaking havoc on my sense of balance and after a while, even reading street signs was making me queasy. But this year was no problem, and I happily settled in to read. With an eleven-hour drive, I had plenty of time and nothing better to do and I settled into my chair with Goblet of Fire.
   Brooke and the twins werefinally letting me read it, after they’d read it and re-read it a hundred times in the past year or so. I was just happy that the Potter books were starting to grow up and get darker. And the simple peace of reading a book did wonders for my overly cluttered mind.
   Speaking of the girls, the twins were chatting amongst themselves in the back bench seat. And Brooke was presently conked out in the bucket seat to my right, the spot usually occupied by Brandi, who was still at Berkeley for her internship and wouldn’t be joining us.
   I sighed at the thought of not seeing Brandi again for a while. She planned to make one weekend visit at least during the summer, so we’d reconnect for a bit. But I HAD been looking forward to a chance to reconnect our sexual organs at some point during camp. The idea of a repeat foursome with Dawn, Dayna, and Brandi had me hard for hours when I first thought of it back in February.
   But even with Brandi and Dayna not attending camp, I still had Dawn. My Dawn. Of all the people in the world, I knew she would understand and forgive. I had a clean slate with her. I could be theman I truly wanted to be with her, without the baggage of my past mistakes. And I felt my heart overflowing with sunshine at the mere thought of seeing my Dawn again.
   And then there was Brooke. In the few days since the near-rape by her boyfriend Perry, my 15-year-old little sister had clung to my side like a second skin. On the couch, she displaced one of the twins to lean against me while watching a movie. We played more video games and board games together in three days than we had in the previous three months. And when I had to drive out to fill up my mom’s car with gas, Brooke even volunteered to give me some company just to stay in my orbit.
   There wasn’t anything sexual about it, but the entire family could tell that we were somehow closer. And when our parents questioned her about it, Brooke just explained that she’d broken up with her boyfriend and that I was helping to talk her through it.
   Mom made a smart-alecky remark,“Well if anyone knows breakups, it’s Ben.”
   Brooke had just giggled and slid herself under my arm, not so easy now that her growth spurt had pushed her up to 5’7”.
   Now that we were on our way to camp, I wondered how much she would still be around me. In the past, Brooke had immediately paired up with DJ and the two would run off to do whatever young teenage girls did while I did my own thing with Dawn. Most summers, I felt like I saw even less of Brooke at camp than I did at home. But lately, I’d gotten used to having her around me, and as I looked at my pretty sister sleeping peacefully in the chair nearby, I found myself hoping we’d find away to hang out together for a change.
   Given that I also wanted to spend as much time as possible fucking Dawn’s lights out, I wasn’t quite sure how the logistics would work out, but I did have a craving to be near Brooke.
   I was stirred from my thoughts when we stopped for gas and my dad took over the driving for the final leg. He was a bit grumpy from not having a pleasant enough nap, and before he shifted the car into gear, he turned around and looked right at me.“Ben, next year, you’re taking a driving leg.”
   I grinned. My parents may have seen driving as a chore, but to a 17-year-old like me, getting new responsibilities is always a little thrill. And if it were up to me, I’d floor the van and do 100 miles an hour until I got to see Dawn again.* * *
   I started to get nervous as we approached the camp. So much had happened to me in the past year. So much about me had changed. How much had Dawn changed? Yeah, I got the occasional email or phone call, but I really didn’t know what was going on in her life.
   Had she gone off the deep-end like me and screwed a dozen guys? Had she fallen in love with Mark or some other boyfriend and wanted to remain faithful to him? Had her personality just changed so much that she no longer wanted to hang out with me for four weeks, or even be my friend?
   I tossed aside the extreme thoughts. After all, she HAD called me for Christmas and in April. Everything seemed normal. But even if she hadn’t radically changed, it was always possible that she’d changed just enough for things to no longer be the way they used to be. And I’d done so many things I wasn’t proud of, I wasn’t sure if she’d still want to be around me if she found out.
   Brooke, awake now, caught me biting my lip and reached over to squeeze my hand. Without having to ask, she said sweetly,“Relax, Ben. I’m sure Dawn will be happy to see you.”
   I gave a tight smile to my sister, and then we arrived.
   As usual, the Evanses were there before us. Their cabin right next to ours was already adorned with hanging towels and various equipment propped against the wall on the porch. And the minute our van pulled up outside our cabin, I glanced out the window and saw the Evans’ front door opening.
   Jack and Deanna Evans were the first ones out the door, waving while my dad parked the van. Brooke was quick to pop the double-doors and hop out, and I followed soon after.
   I turned back to look at the cabin porch just in time to see Dawn come out. She looked EXACTLY like I remembered her. I had a clear image in my head of her svelte body, her slightly overdeveloped breasts on top of the Evans family natural slenderness. Her fine blonde hair cascaded around her cheeks as she hustled down the stairs, and my heart leaped as I realized how eager she was to reunite with me.
   But instead of heading for me by the van, she made a beeline for Brooke who was hustling up to her. And just then, her hair bounced back away from her face and I realized it was DJ, and my eyes popped open in surprise. Hell, the youngest Evans daughter had certainly grown up.
   A musical giggle caught my attention from the porch and I turned to see Dawn smiling at me. Her face was just as gorgeous as ever, and the rest of her body was growing into the very full curves of a young woman. Just a few days away from her 17th birthday, Dawn’s tits had certainly grown to where they were stretching her light summer dress to the limits. They weren’t Dayna’s double-D’s yet, but they WERE much bigger than I remembered them, and I felt my shorts tightening in response. The hem of the dress was short, showing off her long, tanned legs. Her hips were flared just a bit more, and she seemed to have picked up another couple of inches in height, although that may have been because she was elevated on the porch.
   I’d had a clear image of what she looked like in my mind. The memory didn’t do her justice. Dawn wasbreathtakingly beautiful now. And I merely blinked as if her radiance blinded me while my jaw dropped wide open.
   Deanna Evans, Dawn’s mother, looked over at her daughter and said, “I TOLD you he’d like that dress.”
   Dawn didn’t respond verbally, her gaze locked onto me. I said nothing either, and time seemed to slow down around us.
   The treeline behind the cabins went out of focus and became a fuzzy green. The cabin itself washed out, and everything else in my field of vision melted away to leave nothing but Dawn in front of me. She glowed like an angel descended from heaven. And in her crystal clear blue eyes I felt like I could lose myself to the delirium of pure bliss, free from the troubles and worries of the real world I wanted so desperately to leave behind.
   I moved forward. Each step felt like an eternity as I approached her, and I had time to study every little detail about her on the way. I noticed the teasing curve of her eyebrows, lightly rounded to highlight the pleased expression in her eyes. I noticed the crinkle of her lips, turned upwards with just the hint of a smile. I noticed the swell of her large breasts, pushed up and curving as they were stuffed into the woefully insufficient top of her dress. And I noticed the gentle curving lines of her torso as her body pinched in at the waist before flaring out over the tight teenage hips that made grown women jealous.
   If Dawn Evans were ever to stand next to Adrienne Dennis, I might just have a heart attack. And by the time I finally got to the radiant young blonde, my chest was thumping so much I thought I WAS having a heart attack.
   Last year, Dawn and I stared eagerly at each other for a few minutes before she shyly asked if she could kiss me. This time, she just barely managed to say,“Hi, Ben” before I swept her into my arms, bent her over, and planted one of the firmest, juiciest kisses of my life. Sparkles went off behind my eyes. My stomach flipped and then flipped a few more times. And an excited, warm flush went through my whole body. It was a wonderful kiss. It was like we were picking up exactly where we’d left off eleven months ago.
   We kissed for what felt like an hour, and I was out of breath by the time I stood her up and looked into her eyes. She panted and her eyes twinkled at me. We were oblivious to the rest of our families, who had literally formed a semi-circle around us as they looked on in awe. There was a crackle of electricity in the air that everyone felt, and a hushed silence as they all waited to see what Dawn and I did next.
   “Hey,” I said softly while looking through her eyes and into her soul.
   “Hey,” she replied, her gaze darting back and forth through my eyes. “I missed you, Ben.”
   I missed her too. I hadn’t realized it, given all my distractions and romantic complications back in Orange County, but I felt a blanket of peace settle over me just being with my childhood friend again. But it was more than that.
   Keira had once told me that I was too young to really understand love. I was either too clouded by orgasms and lust or just wrapped up in the thrill of puppy love to really and truly LOVE someone. I was comfortable with girls, like Megan and Cassidy. I had passionate lust for girls, like Adrienne. I even had emotional concern for girls, like Summer. But only one person had ever embodied ALL of that, and she was standing right in front of me. Some people talk about love at first sight. Well, I certainly had seen Dawn many, many times, so maybe this was love at 13,942nd sight.
   When you know it, you know it. And I KNEW it.
   In the past, I might have just blurted out the three-word phrase. Girls love to hear the L-word and I’d certainly told Dawn I loved her many times last year. But this year would be different. I’d be a little more careful, a little more realistic. I certainly FELT in love, but I had to face that I was just now seeing Dawn after an 11-month layoff. Rationally, I understood that the time apart heightened my emotions. So I simply smiled and told her, “I missed you, too.”
   I didn’t verbalize the L-word, but I think Dawn saw it in my eyes anyways.
   It was going to be a GREAT summer.* * *
   As much as I wanted to, we didn’t jump each other’s bones right away. After the long drive, relaxing on lounge chairs by the lake sounded like a good idea and we changed into our swimsuits.
   Being a dude, I was the first one out, quickly followed by Brooke, who blushed when I gave her a wolf whistle and then sternly ordered her back inside to put more clothes on. My little sister giggled and ignored my command, posing to show off her developing curves in her black bikini.
   DJ hopped out next, wearing quite the attention-getter in red. It had extra laces, bowties, and metal circles joining the bottoms at her hips, looking more like a bikini for lounging than actual water activity. Her larger breasts dented out the cups nicely, and I raised my eyebrows in some surprise and appreciation.“You’re looking very lovely, DJ.”
   The cute blonde 15-year-old beamed at me and leaned forward to show me even more cleavage.“Glad you like the suit, Ben,” she giggled and then turned her face into the perfect image of a naughty schoolgirl, complete with one finger in the corner of her mouth and her fine blonde hair now braided into twin pigtails. “Want a closer look?”
   Brooke just slapped my shoulder and folded her arms over her chest grumpily.“Boys and boobs.”
   “Aww, you’ve got quite the nice pair too, Brooke,” DJ said sweetly. “I KNOW I’m gonna like them.”
   Brooke’s eyes popped open and she blushed, averting her gaze. I was going to come up with a most inappropriate comment, but then Dawn emerged and took my breath away.
   What felt like an hour later, my best friend said,“Ben, you can close your mouth now.”
   I blinked and realized that Dawn was now standing right in front of me. I must have blacked out for a few seconds, and my mouth stayed open. Her pastel blue bikini was woefully inadequate at covering up her naked skin, and if I thought Dawn was gorgeous in the summer dress, she was awe-inspiring in that bikini.
   “Show off,” DJ deadpanned.
   “Hey, if you’ve got it, flaunt it,” Dawn remarked, cupping her own tits and hoisting them upwards. “Still, I don’t think I’ll ever get Dayna’s Double-D’s.”
   “34D is nothing to sneeze at, Dawn,” DJ shook her head.
   “You can talk. Couple more years and you’ll catch Dayna,” Dawn shrugged.
   “Yeah, but she does nothing but complain about backaches and boys never looking her in the face,” DJ giggled.
   “That’s because Dayna always wears shirts that show off her cleavage. Her own damn fault,” Dawn shook her head.
   “What, you mean like you’re doing to Ben right now?” DJ smiled.
   Dawn turned to me with a grin on her face.“Yeah, but I WANT him staring.” And with that, my lifelong long distance best friend walked over to the bench I was sitting on and shoved her tits into my face, rubbing my nose down her cleavage. And then she tugged on the back of my head to press me even deeper. I was in heaven.
   Dawn giggled and then bent to kiss my lips. Then she stood up straight and held a hand out to me.“Come on, let’s go.”* * *
   By the lake, the three girls in their bikinis attracted boys like honeybees. Dawn flirted for five minutes, then started to get annoyed. She wound up just joining me on my lounge chair, pillowing her head on my chest and holding me lovingly. The boys stopped bothering her then and concentrated their attention on Brooke and DJ, who soaked it all up like sponges.
   It felt completely natural to cuddle with Dawn this way. I’d gotten a lot of practice with different women in the past year, and between that understanding of the physics involved and my innate, natural comfort with my long-time best friend, I started to doze off while happily wrapped up in the intimate embrace. The sound of the younger girls flirting just faded into the background noise.
   But Dawn’s voice woke me back up. “So, Ben… how are things with… Adrienne? Right?”
   My eyes were closed as I lay back, and they stayed closed. I shrugged lightly.“We broke up. Still friends… I think… Didn’t you and Mark break up?”
   She humphed.“I knew he wasn’t the guy for me forever.”
   “So…” I began hesitantly, afraid of the possible answer. “Are you seeing anybody right now?”
   “No,” Dawn murmured softly as she moved her head up towards my face. “Are you?”
   I shook my head.“No.”
   “Good,” Dawn smiled and then she bent her lips to mine, giving me a soft, tender kiss.
   “Mmm…” I moaned when she pulled away. Dawn had the softest lips of any girl I’d ever kissed. She was my first kiss, and in this moment I hoped she would be my last kiss eighty years from now. “Any particular reason why that’s good? Shouldn’t I be saying, ‘Oh, I’m sorry things didn’t work out and I’m sorry you haven’t found someone else just yet.’?”
   Dawn shook her head.“I’m not looking for someone else. I was just waiting for you.”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Why?”
   “Isn’t it obvious, Ben?” Dawn smirked and did a good approximation of my arched eyebrow. “I love you. I loved you last summer and I still love you now. We may have been apart for a long time but that doesn’t mean my feelings have changed.”
   I smiled, but didn’t immediately say the phrase back to her. Dawn let the first uncertain expression cross her face and she got up on one elbow. “Ben? Don’t you still love me?”
   I poured out my love through my eyes, willing her to recognize it. But I sighed regretfully as I said,“Yes, I do. But…”
   Dawn winced at the‘but’ and I bit my lip. “But…” I began again. “I’m trying to make sure of my emotions. This past year has been crazy for me and I’ve done some things you might not have expected from me. You once told me that if we were together, you would be getting really, really mad at me for allthe stupid things I did until the time I finally matured. I’m getting there, but I’m not sure I’ve matured enough yet.”
   She frowned and brushed some of her fine blonde hair back behind her ear. The hand she used made me see she was wearing a thin metal bracelet which highlighted her slender wrist. And I noticed an engraving on it that for some reason captured my attention. I reached over, turned her wrist around, and read“Ben Forever” stenciled into the thin, silver metal.
   “I wondered how long it would be before you noticed that,” she said quietly.
   My eyes went wide and I noticed that Dawn was very intently looking for my reaction. I’m afraid to say that fear was the first thing that crossed my mind.
   Dawn loved me. Dawn was wearing a freaking“Ben Forever” bracelet on her wrist. I should have been thrilled beyond belief.
   But I was scared shitless.
   Megan loved me. Cassidy loved me. But I’d betrayed them and even though we’d gotten back to the point where we were talking again, our friendships weren’t as close as they’d been before.
   Adrienne had shared with me her darkest secret. She trusted me, needed my comfort and support, and let herself fall in love with me. But I’d betrayed her and even now things were still a little awkward between us.
   My life after that was a string of meaningless sexual encounters plus one teen pregnancy and abortion. I was a colossal failure of sexual relationships, and the only one that had come out better than it began was with Summer, with whom I’d never STARTED a relationship.
   I could handle my reduced closeness with Megan and Cassidy. At least we could be in the same circle of friends together. I could handle the awkwardness with Adrienne. We’d never been close in the first place. And I could live with never seeing Donna Kincaid or Stacey Whitehouse ever again. But not Dawn. I couldn’t live without Dawn. She was my Siamese twin until we were ten. She was my partner in exploration every summer since then. And I absolutely COULDN’Tlive without her in my life. I LOVED her.
   But what if I fucked it up?
   “Ben?” Dawn asked with deep concern in her voice. Clearly, I wasn’t having the reaction she’d been expecting. “Are you okay?”
   “I can’t,” I croaked.
   “What?”
   “I can’t be with you,” I nearly started crying.
   Dawn’s face fell and her lower jaw immediately started quivering. “Why not?”
   “Because… I’ll screw it up… Always have…” I stammered and looked away, the tears bubbling out of my eyes as I simultaneously wanted to push myself away from Dawn and yet clutched her even more tightly to my body.
   “Ben, Ben,” Dawn soothed and stroked my head. “Do you love me?”
   Sniffling already, I winced and managed to croak,“I shouldn’t.”
   “But do you?”
   “Yes…” I could feel my heart cracking. “Always have. Always will. But I’ll still betray you. The same… weakness… I had with Dayna last summer… I’ve still got it.”
   Dawn bypassed and further conversation and grabbed my head, tilting to her and then covering my mouth with her own. The kiss she gave me felt like a volcanic explosion of passion and emotion, and I found myself whimpering into it as she took me away to a height of bliss and ecstasy I didn’t know was possible, and when she pulled away I was left in a daze with a completely empty head.
   “Do you want to be with me, Ben?”
   Cleared of all thought, I went with what I felt inside.“More than anything.”
   “Then believe inus, Ben,” Dawn said earnestly. “You’re not just another guy. I’m not just another girl. We’re Ben and Dawn and we’ve been destined from birth to get married and have kids and unite our two families together. Okay? We’ll make it work.”
   She wiped away my tears, I looked up into her eyes, and I stared right into her soul. And then with every ounce of feeling in my heart, I said,“Dawn, I love you.”* * *
   After such an emotional moment, there was only one thing Dawn and I wanted to do. Her irises glowed bright blue as she got up and held her hand out to me. We hurriedly grabbed our things and sprinted off hand-in-hand.
   Brooke and DJ were oblivious as they chatted with the five guys. We knew they’d be occupied for quite a while. I knew Eden and Emma were down by the lake as well, mingling with their other pre-teen friends. And my sincerest hope was that at least one set of our parents, if not both, had left the cabins behind to go socialize with other adults.
   I got my wish. Dawn’s cabin was empty, and no sooner did we pass through the door than Dawn leaped into my arms, wrapping her legs around my waist and her arms around my shoulders while she did her best to permanently imbed her tongue down my throat.
   My fingers were already opening the hook on her bikini top, and I managed to stagger us into the main bunkroom. I started to lose my balance when I tried to get her top off and see for myself just how much bigger her boobs had gotten, but fortunately I made it to her bed and dropped Dawn unceremoniously onto the mattress, rather than onto the floor. At least I managed to remain standing upright, holding her pastel blue bikini top in my hand.
   Dawn giggled and immediately started wriggling out of her bottoms. I tossed the top to the side and then quickly dropped my trunks down to my ankles. And then I had to stop and admire the gorgeous young creature on the bed before me.
   A little over a week shy of her seventeenth birthday, Dawn was the definition of female perfection. Her fine blonde hair haloed behind her head, drawing one’s attention to the pure white of her face and her piercing blue eyes. Michelangelo could not have sculpted a finer face. Delicate shoulders and prominent collarbones framed a slender torso, where the firm mounds of her large breasts remained firm and upright with minimal support, and they were all real. I could see the hint of her ribcage before Dawn’s taut tummy took over with just the delicate ripples of her abs. Her hips perfectly circled around a pretty pussy, her shaven labia surrounding the moist, pink center. And her legs seemed long enough to drape off the bed and wrap around me even though I was several feet away. She was exquisite.
   Lying flat on her back while sideways on the bed, Dawn beckoned me to her with both arms outstretched. My cock was rock hard and bouncing off my own belly as I clambered onto the mattress and moved myself on top of her. She reached to my face and cradled my cheeks as I bent to kiss her, Dawn responding with another one of those volcanic kisses that exploded inside my brain.
   Actually, that kiss practicallymelted my brain. It sucked all the oxygen out of me, sucked my awareness, and took a part of my soul with it. I lost myself to the euphoria and dimly felt myself rolling over and over, flopping onto my back and then finding myself on top and then rolling again while Dawn and I played tonsil hockey.
   I blinked, and then I felt the sudden warmth and pleasure of being inside a tight pussy, and belatedly realized that somewhere along the way our loins had joined together. Only then did Dawn break away to gasp for air and immediately groan in excitement as my cock started moving inside of her of its own accord.
   When my senses came back to me, I realized that I was actually on my side, spooning Dawn while my dick had slipped into her sodden pussy from behind. I held a firm tit in my left hand as my arm was snaked beneath her neck, and my right hand was on her hip as leverage while I thrust myself in and out of her clasping tunnel on autopilot.
   Dawn had twisted her head around to french kiss me, her right arm wrapped behind my head while we made love in her bed. And all I could do was moan and groan and kiss some more while the rest of our bodies moved together in a horizontal-sideways-lambada that shot bolts of pleasure through the both of us.
   The next time I tore my head away to breathe, Dawn turned her torso away from me, dropping her right arm to the mattress and scrunching up the bedsheets in her hand while she concentrated on fucking her hips back at me. She looked unbelievably sexy in that moment, her naked spine twisting away, her hair pulled over one shoulder, and her head bent as she moaned an erotic litany of,“Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me! Gimme your cock! Oh, yes! Yes! Unnnnnghhh! Just FUCK ME!”
   A spike of adrenaline shot through me as she ordered me to fuck her, and I decided to shift away from my spooned position and instead, raised her right leg so that I could pivot under it, straddling Dawn’s left leg as I began thrusting into her from the new oblique angle. Our asses formed a plus sign should anyone be behind us, my butt parallel to the bed as I manically thrust in and out of my best friend and lover. Dawn’s body was sideways, her right cheek on top as I elevated her right leg up and over my shoulder, spreading her even wider.
   I wasn’t thinking totally straight at that point, my brain long ago subsumed by pleasure. I’d forgotten the old concerns Dawn had with her ass, forgotten her order never to put anything inside it. So it was on impulse that while my right hand diddled her clit and stroked Dawn right up the brink of orgasm, my left hand abruptly let go of her buttcheeks and I sank my middle finger through her clenched anus.
   Perhaps Dawn had also forgotten her squeamishness surrounding her ass, because her reaction was immediate. She locked up, her body went rigid, and then she screamed in ecstasy loud enough to call our parents home as she climaxed with intense ferocity.
   “AAAAAHHHHH!” The blonde 16-year-old shrieked. “Fuuuuuuuck!!!”
   Quite pleased with myself, I drilled my left middle finger deeper, setting off all those tight nerve bundles she had in there. I continued thumbing her clit with my right hand while driving my cock forwards a few more times. And then holding myself in the very depths of Dawn’s pussy, my cockhead expanded right up against her cervix and began spitting out wad after wad of scalding hot cum.
   “Cumming!” Dawn announced while her whole body continued to vibrate. “I’m cumming, Ben! You’re cumming in me! We’re cumming together!”
   There was no doubt about that, and long past the duration I would have believed, Dawn was still trembling in the aftershocks of orgasm while I squeezed out the final few drops of jism into the back of my lover’s womb.
   In that contorted position with her right leg over my shoulder, we stayed and panted for a minute or two. Eventually, Dawn dropped her leg off my shoulder, which rotated her forwards so that she was facedown on the mattress, her hips half suspended over my knees while my cock was still buried in her pussy.
   Gently, I pulled myself out of her, her snatch quickly dribbling out a veritable river of mingled cum onto the bed. And then crawling over her prone body, I lay myself down half on the bed and half on her back, kissing her shoulder before kissing her cheek and then whispering sincerely,“Dawn, I love you.”
   She hummed happily and turned her face so that her lips could meet mine. And then smiling she replied back,“I love you too, Ben. Always and forever.”* * *
   Dawn and I both passed out and went to sleep like that, lying naked and on top of each other, evidence of our fornication dribbling out of her lewdly stretched pussy and puddling on the bed.
   That was how Mr. and Mrs. Evans found us when they returned to the cabin. But rather than yell at us, Mrs. Evans simply moved over and pulled a blanket over our two bodies, which woke me up for a brief moment as I felt the fabric stretching across my naked bottom.
   It hit me about five seconds after they left that I’d just gotten caught post-coital with Dawn in their cabin. And I was suddenly wide awake in panic. After all, isn’t “getting caught by parents” genetically ingrained as a panic-response by every teenager?
   But clearly, the Evanses didn’t mind. And as I calmed down and listened, I realized that I could hear low moans and wet kisses emanating out from the Master bedroom. My eyes popped open wide as I realized that Dawn’s parents were having sex, perhaps inspired by finding their middle daughter and me naked and fucked to exhaustion.
   And to the gentle rhythm of lightly squeaking camp bedsprings, I dozed and went back to sleep.JULY 2001, SUMMER CAMP
   “So when’s the wedding?” DJ asked when she returned to the cabin the next morning. It turned out, while I was staying over at the Evans cabin, DJ had taken my bed and slept over in the big bunkroom with Brooke, Eden, and Emma. Everyone was happy, but it also meant EVERYONE knew I’d slept overnight with Dawn.
   I was still amazed how everyone just accepted it as normal. It was as if everyone believed it was destiny for Dawn and I to be together and unite our two families. Personally, I wasn’t sure just yet; the idea of destiny was a lot to wrap my head around. Yeah, I loved Dawn and I wanted it to be true, but I was still just seventeen and knew that just because something seemed to fit didn’t make it right. Just because Dawn and I were childhood friends didn’t mean we were meant to live our lives together.
   But I could still hope. I wanted it to be true, and for now, it seemed I had carte blanche to do whatever the heck I wanted with a gorgeous young girl, and with no interference or concern from her parents. THAT part I could certainly wrap my head around.
   Dawn and I were at least dressed (that is, I’d pulled my swim trunks back on while Dawn was showered and in her outfit for the new day) when DJ traipsed in and walked over to us. I arched an eyebrow at DJ’s question and glanced over at Dawn.
   My best friend and apparent fiancée smiled demurely and then confidently stated, “The wedding will be the summer of 2006. Right after we both graduate from Berkeley.”
   I arched my eyebrow at Dawn.“You got the place picked out yet?”
   “Not yet. But as long as I’ve got the groom picked out right, I’ll be happy,” Dawn smiled and walked over, holding my face in her hands and planting a soft kiss on my lips.
   DJ rolled her eyes and said,“Get a room.” There was no heat in her voice. In fact, there was more than a trace of envy.
   “We’re in a room. So maybe I should askyou to get out,” Dawn retorted.
   DJ laughed and said,“Sure. After I get my clothes. Or maybe I should just permanently move my stuff into their cabin while Ben moves his gear in here.”
   “Oh no,” Deanna Evans was walking by the door and she poked her head in. “Last night was one thing. I get that you two missed each other. But let’s not get carried away just yet. You two are still teenagers.”
   Dawn frowned and pouted at her mom, but shrugged in acceptance. I wasn’t expecting to get ANY overnights with Dawn, so I wasn’t about to complain, lest I jeopardize any future opportunities. Mrs. Evans left, and then Dawn turned to me. “Go get changed… boyfriend.” She added the last word with enough emphasis to make my bones tingle, and she leaned over to kiss me again.
   I grinned. I’d been without emotional companionship for long enough to crave it, and not only was I finding it again, I was finding it with someone truly special. “I love you,girlfriend.”
   Dawn beamed.“I love you, too. Now hurry up. I’m hungry.”* * *
   “Ooh, hey there, handsome.”
   The flirty comment got my attention, momentarily breaking my stride as I turned to look at the cabin where the voice came from. A tall, slender brunette with streaks of blonde in her hair reclined in a chair, her long, lithe legs propped up on the rail.
   I arched an eyebrow as I realized it was Felicia Clarkson, the widely-accepted“babe” of the camp. I was just about to nod hello and continue on my way when she suddenly sat up straighter and peered at me intently. “Ben?” she asked, as if only now recognizing me.
   Something in her voice made me come to a halt, and I shrugged and replied.“Yeah, I’m Ben.”
   Felicia dropped her feet to the deck and stood up. I felt a twinge in my loins as I watched the grace of her movements. The flex of her legs was somehow sexual even though she was only standing upright, and my eyes drank in her lovely form as she descended the porch steps.
   The 21-year-old was a model. No literally, she was a model by profession, part-time at least since she was attending college. Standing almost my height at 5’11”, she had a picture-perfect face that was dominated by big, expressive eyes with irises such a pale blue that every shot of her made her eyes look a steely grey. Her narrow face with high cheekbones made her a natural beauty for still photography. And her willowy body with well-proportionedmeasurements kept her in demand for anything from department store catalogs to runway shows.
   Her tits weren’t the biggest, but they were still good handfuls; and she had such a firm and toned body that the mere sight of Felicia in a bikini made every dick within a hundred yards hard with desire. And what really made her the “babe” of the camp was an exquisite face with pouty lips that seemed made to be wrapped around a cock.
   Those lips were currently pursed as Felicia Clarkson gave me more than a once over.“Wow, Ben,” she mused. “You’ve really grown up.”
   “Well, I actually sprouted last summer,” I blushed.
   “Maybe. But you’ve filled out since then.” Her eyes lingered appreciatively on my chest, which believe it or not had great definition both from exercise push-ups as well as push-ups done in the frequent act of holding myself over a girl while thrusting away at her pussy.
   Being ogled like a piece of meat, now I knew better how a girl with big tits must have felt. I shrugged and looked for a new conversation.“I’m heading down to breakfast. You going down soon?”
   Felicia grinned at the unspoken invite and my lack of nervousness around her. I wasn’t intimidated anymore. Felicia was a babe, true enough. But I’d been around goddesses such as Adrienne Dennis, Elyse Laughton, and even my own Dawn Evans. While certainly alluring, female beauty no longer scared me.
   “I’ll go with you right now,” Felicia smiled. She bored those mesmerizing grey eyes into the back of my skull as she took a few steps to come alongside me, and then together we cruised towards the lodge, chatting aimlessly.
   I got in a few words edgewise, but for the most part, Felicia talked about herself. She complained about school and marveled at all the wonderful places modeling had taken her and how once she got her degree like her parents had demanded, she would go into modeling full-time and jet-set around the world.
   I smiled and nodded and ogled her body. I got to see lots of T&A in Felicia’s skimpy halter and short-shorts, and she got to talk about herself to a captive audience. We were both happy with the situation, and we smiled and flirted with each other quite pleasantly.
   I also noticed one specific thing about Felicia, a subtle thing that somehow made her even more alluring to me: she didn’t walk like most of the girls I knew. That’s not to say that the way Felicia walked was strange or any way less efficient. But there was a gentle sway in her hips and a smooth grace in the way Felicia walked, as if she were gliding on ice instead of thumping down the road like I was. And her rhythmic hip movements somehow made my shorts tighter.
   Once we arrived at the dining hall, Felicia quickly looked around to see how much male attention she had attracted. She got several appraising glances immediately, more than a few from lecherous middle-aged men. She soaked up the ogling with a dazzling smile on her face, but then her face quickly fell.
   I looked over where Felicia was staring, and both our moods soured. My mood soured because Dawn Evans was surrounded by four cute guys who were trying to hit on her, one of whom was 22-year-old Greg Kinomoto. I felt more than a pang of jealousy hit me, and I was almostsurprised to find just how jealous I really was. Seeing Megan, Cassidy, or Adrienne flirting had never really bothered me before. But this was DAWN. MY DAWN.
   Felicia’s mood soured because Dawn Evans was surrounded by four cute guys who were trying to hit on her, one of whom was 22-year-old Greg Kinomoto. Now Felicia and Greg had broken up after camp last year, going their separate ways. But the beautiful girl may have been angling to reunite for the new yearand clearly didn’t like to see any significant competition. And then I remembered how much Felicia and Dayna Evans had hated each other, being rivals the previous summer. Felicia would not be positively pre-disposed to Dayna’s younger sister.
   Quickly, Felicia stomped over to the group and actually grabbed Greg’s elbow, tugging the larger man away. “The fuck are you doing, Greg? The girl’s sixteen!”
   He screwed up his face and looked at his ex-girlfriend incredulously.“For like another week! And what do you care?” Greg nodded his head at me and asked Felicia, “You boinking this little kid yet?”
   Felicia turned red and glared at her onetime boyfriend.“Ben just walked me down to breakfast. There’s nothing—”
   She was cut off when Dawn separated herself from the other three amorous males and quickly wrapped herself around me.“Hey, boyfriend,” she said quickly before gripping my head in her hands and planting a juicy kiss right on my lips.
   That pretty much shut up everyone around us. When Dawn pulled back, she took my hand and started tugging me away. Dazed, I offered a weak,“See ya later, Felicia.” Then I nodded to the handsome, exotic hunk. “Greg.”
   Once we got out of earshot, Dawn sighed and said,“Thanks for the rescue.”
   “Rescue? What’d I do?” I wondered.
   “Just showing up. Gawd! I’ve had guys hitting on me all morning!”
   I grinned.“That’s because you’re the most gorgeous girl in the room.”
   Dawn blushed.“Stop that. Besides, YOU arrived with Felicia Clarkson.”
   “You’re prettier than her now,” I said sincerely.
   “Now? I’m prettier than hernow?” She didn’t have to follow up with ‘What aboutbefore?’ I already knew.
   “Uh, well…” I stumbled for a second.
   Dawn held her false glare for another three seconds before breaking into a fit of laughter.“Just kidding, Ben. Thanks for the compliment.”
   I whistled.“You don’t need compliments from me. I think having every guy between 15 and 50 staring at you is compliment enough.”
   She smiled.“Well, I’ll admit it’s nice to get the attention.” Then Dawn stopped us and pulled me into her arms. “But the only man I want staring at me is you.” And then she gave me another one of those volcanic kisses.
   “Get a room, you two,” Brooke grumbled from three feet away. I hadn’t noticed we’d arrived at the long table our two families shared.
   Dawn and I both blushed, and then we took our seats to join them.* * *
   “Oh, Ben! Unnngh! Oh, yes! Deeper, Ben! Deeper! I’m gonna cum, Ben! You’re gonna make me cum again! Yes! Yes! Oh, harder! Ungh! I’m cumming! Yes! Yes! YES!!!”
   Dawn’s fingers dug into my shoulder blades, pulling me tightly against her chest while her legs hooked around the back of my thighs and tugged me all the way into her. And as I felt her pussy spasming around my shaft, I let myself go and poured out a river of cum deep into her body.
   “Ohh, Dawnnn…” I groaned, feeling the sweet release.
   She cradled my head and kissed me while I continued filling her pussy with my cock cream. And only when my hips gave their last involuntary spasm did she finally release me and let me rest my forehead on the ground just past her shoulder.
   Dawn sighed happily while my weight pressed down on her. She patted my back and murmured,“I love this. I love you.”
   “I love you, too,” I breathed, then turned my head to tenderly kiss her cheek. The air was filled with the sounds of the babbling creek and the light breeze rustling through the trees and bushes all around us. This first morning, after breakfast Dawn and I had made a beeline for our hiking gearand on to our special clearing. Almost immediately we were rolling around making out and we’d eagerly begun making love.
   “I love this place,” I continued while nuzzling my nose against her cheek. “When we’re gray and old, I hope we come back here to make love.”
   Dawn giggled.“I dunno. After my second hip operation this hard ground might be a little uncomfortable.” She patted the blankets next to us, feeling the unyielding earth beneath them.
   I chuckled.“Just keep me loaded with Viagra and we’ll make it work. You can be on top.” I reached a hand up and started rubbing Dawn’s big tits. “As long as I can play with these puppies. I’ll love them even when they sag to your navel.”
   Dawn laughed again and squirmed when I pinched her nipple.“That tickles!” And when I released her, she rolled us over so that I was on my back, pulling her sodden pussy off my deflating cock while she lay on her side next to me. “So you like the view when I’m on top?”
   I grinned and felt a twitch in my prick as I dropped my gaze to Dawn’s tits. “Yes. Yes, I do.”
   She grinned.“Want to see it right now?”
   I exhaled and glanced down at my mostly limp dick.“Uh, gimme a minute.”
   Dawn gave me a Cheshire grin and started sliding her body down towards my hips.“Oh, this won’t even take a minute.” And then she opened her mouth to slurp me inside. And as her hot tongue and lips worked their magic, I let my head rest back and I sighed happily.
   She was right. I was ready in less than a minute. But she stayed down there and had some fun with me anyways. But before she made me pop, Dawn followed through on her promise and mounted me so I could enjoy the view.* * *
   “Oh, Ben! Oh, I’m so close! I’m so close! Unnngh! Unngh! Uh, OH, SHIT BEN! Oh, I’m cumming! You’re making me cum! UNNNNGHHH!!!”
   I stared up at the gorgeous teenager humping herself up and down my shaft, writhing in what looked like agony but felt like so much bliss. Dawn threw her head back, tossing her fine blonde hair behind her as her chin jutted out and her mouth gaped wide open. My left hand squeezed down on her right tit as she arched her back above me, and I drove the middle finger of my right hand even deeper into her anus.
   Her pussy muscles clamped down so tightly that even when I relaxed myself to let myself cum, the semen had nowhere to go, constricted as it was by Dawn’s incredibly tight tunnel. And when her next spasm came, loosening those muscles for just a brief moment, I grunted in relief as I felt a built-up wad of spunk fly up and out of me to splatter all over Dawn’s vaginal cavity.
   Together we came, screaming and moaning and thrashing away to our heart’s content. There was no one around for miles, so we just let loose with all the passion and volume we desired.
   Eventually, we both returned to earth and Dawn hunched forward, planting her hands on the blankets to either side of me, hanging her head to gasp for oxygen. This also put her tits within easy reach of my mouth, and as exhausted as I felt, I wasn’t going to pass up the opportunity to take a few more tastes of her ripe titflesh.
   “You did it again,” Dawn wheezed.
   “Did what?” I mumbled around her nipple.
   “Put your finger in my ass. I distinctly remember making you promise to never do that last summer,” She panted.
   I froze and just managed not to bite her nipple. My cheeks tightened and I looked up at her apologetically before pulling my mouth off her teat.“Sorry.”
   “Don’t be,” Dawn sighed, still breathing heavily. “I loved it. I guess Dayna was right. It CAN feel really good. When you popped your finger in there it made me cum so HARD.” And with that, my lover bent down and sealed her lips over mine, thundering down that volcanic kiss.
   When she pulled away, Dawn brushed a lock of hair out of her face and back behind her ear while sitting up straight, my erection still embedded inside her pussy. She made no move to dismount me, and the tightness of her pussy lips kept my shrinking cock inside her.“You’ve gotten better, Ben.”
   I smiled.“At sex? Thanks.”
   She arched an eyebrow at me.“Had a lot of practice?”
   At first I smiled while my ego puffed, but then the guilt set in and I blushed.“Uh, some.”
   “Some, huh?” Dawn didn’t quite believe me. “You said you broke up with Adrienne. I’m assuming you’ve had other girlfriends?”
   “A couple,” I shrugged and looked away. Dawn immediately got curious when even her nubile, naked body wasn’t holding my attention.
   “A couple? How many, Ben?”
   I set my lips into a hard line and looked away, clearly uncomfortable with the subject.
   “C’mon Ben, I won’t judge.”
   I frowned and complained,“It’s not a choice. You can say you won’t judge, but sometimes people just can’t help it. It’s like asking someone not to laugh and then you tell them something so embarrassing they just can’t help laughing.”
   “C’mon. I’ll tell you how many boys I slept with.”
   I made a face and felt that jealousy flare up inside me again.“I don’t want to know,” I growled. “Don’t want to think about it, Dawn.”
   “Just you, Ben.”
   My eyes went wide. She gave me a firm look and nodded fractionally to confirm I’d heard what I thought I heard. And arching an eyebrow I asked, “But… what about Mark?”
   She shook her head.“Couldn’t do it. I didn’t love him. I don’t love him. And if I had done it I’d regret it.” She smiled then and bent to kiss me. “Gawd, Ben. When I first saw you a couple days ago I was sooo horny. Vibrators just don’t cut it.”
   “Yeah, I’ve heard that before,” I stalled.
   But Dawn wasn’t letting it drop. “C’mon, Ben. How many?”
   “Well I’m not going to tell you NOW.”
   “Why not? Are you embarrassed the number is too low?”
   Ooh, a blow to my male ego. Automatically, I defended myself by blurting,“Of course not. I’ve had three.”
   “Okay, three girlfriends. I can handle that,” Dawn nodded. “Now… how many other girls did you sleep with?”
   I winced and looked away. Belatedly, I tried to stammer,“And, uh, why would I sleep with anyone who wasn’t my girlfriend?”
   “You HAVE, haven’t you?” Dawn’s eyebrows went up with only mild surprise. “How many others? One? Two?”
   My grimace became worse.
   “No way. Three girlfriends plus others… Ben, you really get around, don’t you?” Dawn chuckled.
   Sensing that she wouldn’t press TOO hard, I finally met her gaze and shrugged. “Well, yeah. But now I feel guilty because you’ve been saving yourself for me or something.”
   Dawn clucked and shook her head, which made her boobies jiggle as well, drawing my attention downwards.“I never asked you to save yourself. You’re a guy, Ben, and you’re my friend. I know how your mind works and I knew you’d be led around by your dick quite a bit. After all, I saw how easily you got wrapped around Dayna’s little finger.”
   I winced at the memory and then Dawn frowned, looking at me a little harder.“Ben, you said before that you were afraid of being with me because you’d screw it up. That you’d screwed it up before. You weren’t just talking about Dayna, were you?”
   I shut my eyes and winced, nodding my head‘no’. The subject had now gotten so painful for me that my cock completely went limp and managed to slip out of Dawn’s pussy, followed by a puddle of mingled cum that ran out and began to dry in our crotches.
   Dawn got up and moved to the side, a serious look on her face as she stared down at me.“Ben, did you cheat on one of your girlfriends?”
   My wince and the way I dropped my head back against the blanket was all the answer she needed.
   She arched an eyebrow.“More than one of them?”
   I grimaced and nodded.
   She looked at me dubiously,“All three of them?”
   I bit my lip and Dawn just stared in disbelief at me.“Three times? You didn’t learn from your mistakes and you did it three times?”
   “Well, in my defense,” I sputtered. “It was only twice.”
   “Then how do you cheat on three girlfriends?”
   “I was dating two of them at the same time,” I gave her a helpless look. Then I quickly added for clarification, “They both knew about it. They were best friends who wanted to share me.”
   “Okay Ben, I’m serious now,” Dawn looked at me. “Tell me everything.” She slid across the blankets, grabbing a hand towel to wipe herself up and then started cleaning me as well.
   I winced and turned my eyes away, searching for something to say, but Dawn grabbed my head and turned it towards her.“Come on, Ben. This is me, Dawn. We’ve never had secrets from each other and I don’t want to start now. I LOVE you. I truly believe that nothing you can say to me will ever change that. Look, you’re embarrassed because you cheated. I can handle that. Hey, I had sex with you when we both were dating other people. You at least seem remorseful about it and that’s a start. What’s past is past. Work with me, Ben. Tell me everything and I promise I’ll still love you in the end.”
   I exhaled, feeling all the fight in me evaporating away. This was Dawn. I did love her, and she deserved to know everything about me. I sighed and said,“Okay. But no names, remember?”
   She nodded. I’d kept Keira a secret and Dawn had never pressed me. I’d tell Dawn my history, but I wouldn’t say anything that might come back to haunt one of my past lovers. It just wasn’t in me to do so.
   “Okay. Now how many girls have you had sex with?”
   I raised my eyebrows.“Uh, gimme a second.” I didn’t have the exact number readily available, and I’d have to think back and count. “And, well… it sort of depends on how you count.” For example, I had girls give me blowjobs without getting to full intercourse. Those didn’treally count, did they?
   Dawn rolled her eyes at me, so I just shut up and did the math for full intercourse: Keira, Megan, Cassidy, Brandi, Adrienne, Mizuho, Donna, Stacey, Mandy, Abbie, Allie, and Summer. Blushing, I said,“Twelve.”
   “Twelve???” Dawn looked incredulous.
   “Well, not including you and Dayna. That’d be fourteen,” I stammered.
   Impossibly, Dawn’s eyes got even bigger. “Fourteen???”
   And then I thought of Elyse, Candy, Lynne, and even Brooke. If I was really going to be honest, then yes, they counted.“And technically, if you count oral, then it’s eighteen.”
   Dawn’s jaw dropped. “Ben. It’s been less than a year since I last saw you. How the FUCK did you do all that?”
   I blushed.“It’s been an interesting year.”* * *
   We didn’t quite get through everything. Dawn kept asking questions and we kept getting side-tracked; but by the time we needed to start heading back, I’d spilled much of my sexual history.
   I’d also started to relax my fears of losing Dawn over the mistakes of my past. She’d said she wouldn’t judge and while I could see her jaw clenching when I detailed some of my transgressions, she did seem to accept them as foibles from my past and her love for me still shone through.
   For example, one of the first things I explained was Adrienne’s initial seduction after she trapped me in her garage. Without going into detail, I explained how the hottest girl in school pretty much stripped naked and threw herself at me, looking for nothing more than a lusty fuck and a few orgasms. Dawn rolled her eyes at how easily I was seduced despitehaving two happy girlfriends, but she didn’t get upset with me.
   I suppose that was what made Dawn so much different from any other possible girlfriends. We knew each other so intimately already and this one situation from my past was just a drop in the ocean of experiences we’d already had together. Yeah, it caused ripples, but the bulk of Dawn’s opinion of me had already been formed.
   Conversely, if I ever told that story to a girl I barely knew, or even a girl I was getting close to but didn’t know very well just yet, I would soon find myself staring at her back as she stomped away from me in disgust.
   As time went on, going through my history with Dawn, I got more and more comfortable with her. I was less hesitant and less embarrassed about the things I’d done. Originally, I planned to feed my sexual past to her in small doses. I wouldn’t hide anything from Dawn, but I didn’t intend to give it to her all at once either, stretching out the different tidbits over the next month or so. But we kept going and going and I even told her about my winter break affair with Brandi.
   “Wow…” Dawn said in amazement. “I mean, I’ve no grounds to say anything since I was having sex with my older sister long before you, but… wow… You actually had sex with Brandi?”
   Wincing and peeking at Dawn with one eye, I hesitantly wondered,“You’re not disgusted?”
   “Not at all,” Dawn blushed and smiled. “Actually, it’s kind of a turn-on to picture it.”
   I knew how she felt. Talking so much about getting laid had given me a new erection. But we were still in the conversation, so I kept going. We chatted on and got through some of Brandi’s post-shower stripteases. By now, I was no longer in confession mode. I was just telling stories with an old friend about some humorous and sensual episodes.
   I was in the middle of telling Dawn about how one night, Brandi just hopped onto the kitchen counter while everyone was asleep and ordered me to eat her. I thought it was hilarious that my sister kept drinking her coffee while I tongued her slit, but it just made Dawn horny and she finally grabbed my head and planted one of those volcanic kisses on me.
   Then, there were no more words as Dawn rolled onto her back and ordered me to fuck the shit out of her. I quickly slotted my cock, ramming forward. And we rutted violently like wild animals until we both came to screaming orgasms.
   After that, the two of us lay side-by-side, panting while staring skywards.“Someday Ben, you’re gonna have to tell me about all eighteen.”
   I chuckled.“Wait until I tell you about the time Brooke snuck into my bedroom.”
   “Brooke?” Dawn’s head popped up, and our conversation took off again.* * *
   After lunch, we headed down to the lake for some swimming and sunning. Dawn lay on her belly, undoing the strings of her bikini top to avoid a tan line, and asked me to put lotion on her back. I did her back, then I did her legs, and my hand snuck under the back of her suit bottoms more than once as well.
   We vegged out and let our meals digest for a bit before Dawn’s tomboy instincts kicked in and we made several runs down the waterslide and rope swing. Then she nearly lost her top on the waterslide and my beautiful girlfriend decided not to tempt fate any longer.
   Alex Regan, Mr. Volleyball at camp, came by to invite us to join his game. He seemed quite disappointed that Dayna wasn’t coming to camp this year. I know from personal experience that the guy REALLY loved to zone out while staring at Dayna’s gyrating big tits, even mid-game. But he seemed perfectly happy to ogle Dawn until I obviously slipped my arm around her and glared at him to back off.
   Dawn and I then had a good laugh about all the male attention she was getting these first couple days at camp, even though she was still a week away from her seventeenth birthday.
   “What can I say, Dawn? You’ve grown up into quite the hottie. You’re even more attractive to guys than Dayna.”
   She smirked.“Really? My tits aren’t as big.”
   “Tits aren’t everything,” I shrugged.
   Dawn just gave me a look.
   “OK, OK, so I like big tits. But you’ve got a much prettier face, your body is smokin’ hot, and you KNOW I love your personality. Guys can tell. I’m just glad someone as hot as you is with a guy like me. You’re out of my league.”
   “Well, if I’m out of your league, then maybe I settled too quickly,” Dawn frowned. “I guess I’ll just have to dump you for a more handsome, older man.”
   I growled and tossed a handful of sand at Dawn, forcing her twist her head away and complain,“Hey!” But she came back giggling. “Besides Ben, eighteen girls? With a track record like that, I don’t think any girl is out of your league.”
   I blushed, guiltily embarrassed and proud of myself at the same time.
   After another few minutes, we saw Alex setting up by the sand volleyball courts along with a few other young adults, and Dawn and I picked ourselves up to go join them. As we arrived, there were already three guys and three girls, all between the ages of 18 and 22. Greg Kinomoto was chatting up two hot 20-year-olds who were wearing the skimpiest of string bikinis. Their buttcheeks were completely exposed in the thong bottoms, and I constantly found my gaze being drawn downwards whenever one of them would turn around.
   But very quickly, Greg moved away from the two hotties and came over to me and Dawn.“Heyyy, Dawn,” Greg grinned while oozing charm, his smile dazzling white as he leaned in to flirt with my girlfriend. What was that Dawn said about handsome, older men?
   Even though I knew Dawn loved me, she was not immune to Greg’s charms. Like all the Evans sisters, she’d thought the exotically mixed young man was sooo dreamy from the time she hit puberty. I even remember playing a truth game with her when we were thirteen, Dawn admitting that she thought the then-18-year-old was the cutest boy in camp.
   Now since Greg was more than five years older than her, Dawn had never been taken seriously by the handsome, older man before. But now that she’d really grown into her body and passed into the realm of “late” teenagers, apparently she was now on his radar. And basking in his attention, Dawn blushed and giggled quite easily.
   That spark of jealousy was starting to burn inside me. I was getting annoyed with Greg’s witty remarks and flirtatious comments that somehow set Dawn’s heart atwitter, but just as I was about to say something, movement to my right caught my eye.
   It was Felicia, also arriving to join the volleyball game. Man… I loved how that girl walked. There was something about it that just invited me to start thinking of sex. Anyways, she cruised up and immediately went to the two hotties who’d been ditched by Greg, quickly exchanging greetings and launching into their conversation.
   I zoned out while ogling Felicia’s body for a minute before I realized the trio was staring in my direction. Or rather, with a closer look, they were staring at Greg and Dawn. One of the hotties frowned and nodded towards my girlfriend, and Felicia started steaming. But rather than march up to Greg like she had during Sunday’s breakfast, the gorgeous brunette instead sauntered over to me.
   “Heyyy, Ben,” Felicia grinned while oozing sensuality, her smile dazzling white. “I seem to remember you being quite the volleyball pro.”
   I blushed but kept my posture. I was too used to being around beautiful girls to get all bashful. And with a casual air, I replied,“I do okay. I enjoy the game.”
   “You do better than okay. You’re what, seventeen? You’re two, three, five years younger than some of these guys,” she nodded to Greg. “But you’ll still kick their butt. What are you now, six feet?”
   “Just about,” I said proudly. Not that six feet was huge or anything, but after a lifetime being one of shortest kids in school, it felt pretty good.
   Felicia giggled,“Maybe one day when we’re both free you can give me some pointers. Every time I play this game all I end up with is sore forearms.”
   “Sure thing, anytime,” I smiled.
   “Aww, thanks Ben,” Felicia grinned and ran her hand down my arm, causing me to shiver despite the warm heat. She spun then and I now saw that Felicia was wearing a thong-backed bikini bottom as well, and I actually felt some spittle drool out the corner of my mouth as I stared at an ass so tight you couldn’t even dent it with your fingers.
   I was still staring when I felt a slap hit the side of my shoulder.“What?” I turned around to find Dawn rolling her eyes at me, Greg long gone.
   “Thought you were going be a good boy from now on?” My girlfriend raised her eyebrows at me.
   “That? That was nothing.” I shrugged. “She just wanted to make Greg jealous because he was talking to YOU.”
   “And I was completely shutting Greg down,” Dawn insisted.
   I arched an eyebrow skeptically.“And all that giggling was part of your put-down?”
   Dawn blushed and turned half-away, knowing she’d been caught. “Relax Ben. It’s harmless. Now come on. Let’s play.”* * *
   One day, my parents asked me to escort Eden and Emma to the Garden of Eden. At 11, the girls were old enough to scamper about the camp on their own and even take short hikes, say the distance of mine and Dawn’s special clearing if they’d known where it was. But the girls still weren’t old enough to go as far out as the Garden. Two of their friends, Jenny Wong and Ana Ramirez, were going along, and this year Dawn agreed to accompany me.
   An hour-and-a-half hike away from camp, I was quite happy with the opportunity to ogle Dawn all by myself without worrying about other males around. And one time at the pool, we violated our standing orders, slipping away for a five-minute quickie. It turned out alright. None of our four charges drowned and Dawn ended up sliding into the water to try and wash away the evidence of our fornication from her crotch.
   The girls DID notice our absence, though. And they also noticed the just-fucked expressions on both our faces, although I sincerely hope they didn’t understand exactly what our faces meant. Afterwards, the four young ones huddled together, giggling and pointing at us as if we weren’t even there.
   Perhaps fifteen minutes later, Eden was elected spokesman of the group and the four swam over to us. My baby sister promptly stood up with fists on her hips and declared,“Okay, we won’t blab that you two snuck away for a few minutes if you two show us a real kiss.”
   Dawn immediately burst into laughter, covering her mouth.“Eden, sweetie. You don’t have to try and blackmail us. I’d kiss Ben anyways.”
   Ana looked up at us with a nervous expression on her face.“Is it really that nice? Because I’ve been kissed once and it was just slimy.”
   Dawn chuckled.“Wait till you get hormones. It feels so much different.” And with that, Dawn slid into my arms with a big smile on her face. “Make it a good one, boyfriend.”
   My eyes went up in anxiousness as Dawn descended. Three seconds later she pulled back and slapped me on the chest.“Relax. It’s just a kiss.”
   “Well, you put a lot of pressure on me!” I complained.
   “Not my fault if you can’t handle the— URP!”
   I had rolled my eyes and then attacked Dawn, seizing her head in my hands and laying a fat kiss on her lips, diving my tongue inside her mouth and spearing it around until she met me and moaned audibly into our liplock. My left hand slid lower down her back as I dipped Dawn backwards, and she swooned happily as I carried her over into loving ecstasy, making love to her with my mouth and expressing all my heart’s feelings into that kiss.
   When I pulled away, I stared adoringly into Dawn’s clear blue eyes and smiled. She was still in the romantic dip position, and we heard the breathless “Whoa…” of all four 11-year-olds gasping at the sight of us.
   “I want a boyfriend now,” Jenny whined.
   That got all six of us laughing.* * *
   One night, an unusual cold spell settled in after dinner and as dusk fell, Brooke and I went back to the cabin to retrieve sweatshirts for everyone. Rather casually, she hooked her arm through mine as we hiked up the hill.
   “You seem a lot happier, Ben,” Brooke commented.
   I smiled.“I am. I love this camp.”
   “You love Dawn. You’re always happier when you’re around her,” Brooke smiled radiantly at me. She was right. Just a week after arrival I felt like all my real world problems had gone away.
   I shrugged.“Dawn’s like slipping into my favorite T-shirt, familiar and comfortable and yet stimulating at the same time. Sometimes I don’t know how we go eleven months without seeing each other.”
   “Yeah, same with me and DJ,” Brooke nodded. “She’s like my missing half. I’ve got my friends at school and all, but there’s no one like her.”
   I nodded and we continued walking. But then Brooke squeezed my arm and said slyly,“Of course, DJ and I don’t quite have sex like you and Dawn.”
   I arched an eyebrow. Brooke’s comment was simultaneously jealous and sad and sensual. And I got the impression that while she and DJ weren’t ‘quite’ like me and Dawn, the two 15-year-olds were indeed having sex with each other, much like Brandi and Dayna before them. “What do you mean?” I asked cautiously.
   Brooke blushed deep enough that I could see it even in the greying twilight.“Well, DJ and I have gotten pretty good at giving each other orgasms. Dayna started doing it with Dawn and Dawn started doing it with DJ. And then DJ started doing it with me. I’m not lesbian or anything. I haven’t had any interest in sex with any other girls except her. But even though DJ and I have fun together… there’s just something missing.”
   I gulped as the image of Brooke and DJ sixty-nining brought instant wood into my shorts.“What?” I croaked, selfishly hoping she would answer ‘Your cock, Ben.’
   But Brooke just sighed forlornly and her next words took all the stiffness out of my penis.“I miss Perry. I know he got out of control and I don’t think I can ever forgive him for trying to force himself on me. But I miss having a boyfriend. I miss feeling like I have a partner for my future. Yeah, we probably weren’t going to get married or anything. But it was nice to pretend fora little bit.”
   I reached over and squeezed my sister’s shoulder. “There will be other boys, Brooke.”
   She sighed again.“But not like you and Dawn. She’s like your soulmate or something Ben. Everyone can see it. Mom, Dad, the Evanses. Even the twins want to start calling her Auntie Dawn.”
   There was a bitterness in Brooke’s voice that I didn’t understand. “You sound a little jealous, Brooke. You wishing DJ was a boy?”
   She snorted,“No.” And then she went silent for a moment, lost into thoughts I couldn’t comprehend.
   By now, we’d reached the cabin and went inside to hunt down everyone’s sweatshirt. Brooke went into the bunkroom to grab hers, mine, and the twins’. And I was in Mom and Dad’s bedroom grabbing their sweatshirts out of the drawers when suddenly I felt arms slide around my torso.
   I spun around in surprise, only to find Brooke pressed up against me. Her hands yanked down on the back of my head, pulling me down as she planted a searing kiss on my lips.
   I stiffened in shock but Brooke’s lips kept massaging mine, and after another moment instinct kicked in and I was returning my little sister’s kiss with all the passion she was giving me.
   But three seconds later I yanked my head away.“Brooke, Brooke, no.”
   She pouted.“Why not? You did it with Brandi. And it’s not like we’re five seconds removed from Perry trying to rape me anymore.”
   My eyebrows furrowed and I looked bewildered at my little sister.“Why are you doing this?”
   “Because I want you. I love you, Ben. You’re my big brother, you’re a hunk, and you’ve always looked out for me. I see the glowing looks on all those girls you’ve been with and I have this craving seven inches inside of me that only you can fill,” Brooke husked, her dark eyes flashing. “Come on, Ben. I’m cashing in all those favors. You always promised to tell me and teach me. Teach me now, Ben. Teach me about sex.”
   “I promised Dawn I wouldn’t with anyone else. I promised myself.” I looked at the pretty 15-year-old, torn between my lust and my conscience. “I’m trying to be good and loyal, Brooke.”
   “I’m your sister. It wouldn’t count. Ask her.”
   “I don’t know that.” I shook my head. “Maybe itwould count.”
   Brooke’s pleading expression turned into a malevolent glare, that evil look back in her eye. “I could screw things up for you and her. I know all your secrets and I could blab. I know about your cheating and hooking up with all those girls, Ben. I even know about Miss McNeil.”
   My eyes flew open and suddenly I was gripping Brooke’s biceps, holding her so firmly that she winced and squealed in pain before I let go and pushed her away. “That’s NOT going to put me in the mood, Brooke,” I said heatedly. Sure enough, my erection was already subsiding.
   My little sister whimpered and looked away.“I’m sorry. I’m not trying to be an evil bitch. I’m just jealous, Ben,” she started babbling. “I thought we were getting closer and you came and rescued me from Perry and I was thinking that camp would be perfect for you and me to spend more time together and I could get you to show me what sex is all about and take my virginity but then Dawn wasthere and even though I knew she’d be here I thought it would be like always where you two were best friends but still had time for the rest of us but you’ve been glued to her side and calling each other boyfriend and girlfriend and I never get to SEE YOU!”
   Brooke had to pause and gasp for oxygen. I reached out and hugged her.“Brooke…” I shushed soothingly.
   She shuddered in my embrace for a few extra seconds, breathing hard and still gasping for oxygen. But once she got herself under control, the tears began rolling down her cheeks and she buried her face against my chest.“I’m not a little kid anymore, Ben. You and Brandi keep saying I’m too young but I have hormones and urges. I’ve already had oral sex, both ways. And I’m going to lose my virginity soon, one way or another. But you won’t even talk to me about it. You promise you’ll answer my questionsbut I already KNOW all the technical stuff. I need you to SHOW me now. But you won’t even touch me! Like I’ve got some funky skin condition or something.”
   “You’re my little sister,” I pinched my eyebrows in and tried to reason with her.
   “And you were Brandi’s little brother.”
   “But you should learn that kind of stuff with a boy your own age,” I sighed.
   “Did you?” Brooke’s eyes bored into my skull. “Correct me if I’m wrong, but you learned everything you know from Miss McNeil: an older, wiser woman. Your relationship with her was ‘wrong’ too, but it was right for you.”
   I grimaced, fishing around for a defense and not finding one.
   “Why can’t I learn from you, Ben? I love you, I trust you. I compare every potential boy to you, and none of them measure up. How could I possibly think of learning and fumbling around with some 15-year-old acne-ridden dweeb when you and your wealth of experience and love for me is right in thenext bedroom? Or would you rather I just hit up some jock on the football team and have him deflower me?”
   “No!” I shouted at the very thought.
   “Well that’s what’s gonna happen if you keep waiting for me to grow up, Ben. I AM grown up. I told you last Winter that I wanted you. I promised I’d wait. But I’m tired of waiting now. It’s time.” There was a fire in Brooke’s eyes that told me she was dead serious. This was her ultimatum and nothing I could say would change her mind.
   I sighed.“Lemme think about it, okay?”
   Brooke visibly sagged, looking both relieved and apologetic.“Look Ben. I’m really not trying toforce you. I just want you to understand where I’m coming from. I’m scared of all this. I’m scared of sex. But I’m not scared when I’m with you. Please? Can’t you do this for me?”
   I nodded.“Okay.”
   I’d meant it as “okay, I understand” but Brooke may have taken it as “Okay, I’ll do it”.
   “When?” She asked, suddenly excited again.
   “I don’t know yet. I gotta talk to Dawn.” I hoisted the sweatshirts. “We should get back.”
   Brooke darted forward and hugged me.“I love you, Ben.”
   I patted her on the back.“Love you too, sis.”* * *
   Brooke and I hadn’t been gone that long, but apparently we’d been gone long enough for Greg Kinomoto to make his move. As we approached the bonfire I could see that the hunky Eurasian had his arms wrapped around Dawn, my girlfriend giggling as together they held a long stick with two marshmallows into the fire.
   Presently, Dawn shivered and Greg leaned in to whisper something in her ear. She giggled and then turned her head to him, nodding. He said something else and the pair moved away from the fire, going around behind some bushes and out of sight.
   I felt my blood beginning to boil. I was sure it was harmless; sure that Dawn wasn’t doing anything more than flirting. I’d seen Adrienne do FAR more with other guys without letting it get out of hand.
   But then, Adrienne had always been the one in control, only offering small nuggets to her would-be suitors while saving all the goodies for me. Dawn, on the other hand, was the not-yet-17 blushing girl being seduced by the 22-year-old hunk. Wordlessly, I thrust Mom and Dad’s sweatshirts at them and then hurried around the perimeter of the bonfire while Brooke went to give the twins their warm clothes.
   Dawn was nowhere in sight by the time I circled around. I headed for the bushes and as I approached, I heard her musical giggling. With a nagging sense of dread at the back of my neck, I decided to tiptoe my approach and peer around the bushes surreptitiously. And then my blood stopped boiling.
   Instead, it ran icy cold.
   Greg had his jacket wrapped around Dawn’s shoulders, his hands on her arms rubbing gently for extra heat. That scene in and of itself would have made me pretty upset. But also, at that very moment, Greg was pressed up right in Dawn’s face, the back of his head obscuring it. And yet from the short, nodding movements, it was clear he was kissing her.
   I only needed to see this for half a second before I instantly turned away and stomped none-too-quietly back around the bonfire. Fucking Bitch!
   I heard Dawn’s words in my head. ‘Relax, Ben. It’s harmless, Ben.’ Yeah, right. I was angry and I was pissed off. For a brief moment, I contemplated dragging Brooke back to our cabin and fucking the shit out of her. I knew my little sister wanted it and I would give her the fucking of her young life. She would be forever ruined for other men by the time I was through with her.
   And yet, the instant I had that thought I dashed it away. No, Brooke deserved better. I still wasn’t sold on the idea of doing anything sexual with a younger sibling. Older, yeah. Brandi was old enough to know what she was getting into and to deal with the consequences. But a virgin little sister? And especially in the mental state I was in? No, an angry revenge fuck was NOT what Brooke needed to be a part of.
   Angry, I simply stomped away and headed for… wherever.
   Aimlessly, I walked around in the semi-darkness. I had a flashlight in my pocket, but for the moment I was content to meander without it. Maybe if I was lucky I’d hit my head on a low tree branch and render myself unconscious.
   Only one voice stopped me dead in my tracks.“Hey there, handsome.”
   I turned to look at the cabin where the voice came from. A tall, slender brunette with streaks of blonde in her hair reclined in a chair, her long, lithe legs propped up on the rail. Felicia held a steaming mug in her hands, and her smile was bright ivory in the twilight.
   “A little tense, are we, Ben? You look like someone who could use a good backrub.” Felicia’s smoky, seductive voice simultaneously set my blood on fire once again and reignited that naughty, amoral part inside of me.
   And with an evil little grin, I nodded and went up to the house.* * *
   Felicia was deceptively strong for her slight frame. All slender limbs without any obvious musculature, she certainly knew what she was doing with her hands. I was putty on the bed, feeling quite good, and when she began to slide my shirt up to expose my back, I gave her no resistance.
   Soon, I was topless and resettling onto my stomach while Felicia stroked my spine with long, rhythmic movements. I sighed happily and didn’t even flinch when I felt the soft touch of her lips between my shoulder blades. “What’s bugging you, Ben?”
   I growled in response and tensed up again, causing her to resume rubbing concentric circles over my shoulders.
   “Girl trouble?”
   I shrugged.
   “So what’s bothering you right now?”
   “Greg,” I grunted, and immediately I felt the tension in Felicia’s hands. As far as I knew, the pair had been broken up since last summer and had not reconnected, but clearly Felicia was just as bothered by her ex’s dalliance with Dawn as I was.
   “What about him?” she asked in a strained voice.
   “I found them kissing,” I sighed in vexation.
   Felicia was quiet for a long moment. But then she resumed rubbing my naked back and said quietly,“I see.”
   “I’m sure it’ll all work out, Ben. I’ve seen you two together ever since I started coming here six years ago. You’re best friends and that sort of thing will last forever, no matter what little things happen here and there.”
   “Right,” I mumbled.
   “Then again,” Felicia’s voice dropped to a seductive purr, layered with honey. “It depends on what kind of kiss.”
   I picked my head up at that and the gorgeous brunette took the opportunity to roll me over onto my back, quickly straddling my midsection. I felt both heat and moisture where her crotch rubbed against my naked abdomen.
   “I mean,” Felicia began. “Were they kissing like this?” She bent down and pecked my lips, quickly darting away with a flirty twinkle in her eye and a little seductive smile.
   I shook my head no.
   “Then they were kissing like this?” She bent again and pressed her lips firmly to me, her mouth closed but her puffy pads molding themselves against me, pushing and pulling and gently nibbling as Felicia gave me the hottest closed-mouth kiss of my life.
   I was slightly dazed when she pulled back, and apparently she took my non-response as a negative answer.
   “Well then, I guess if they must have been kissing likethis.” Seriously, Felicia must have taken nuclear kissing lessons from Adrienne. The instant her tongue entered my mouth, a bomb went off in my head as she sucked me in with vacuum force and simultaneously exploded a riot of sensations in my brain. And for a few seconds, I thought she might inhale me inside of her.
   The kiss went on and on and on. There were no more silly questions of comparison. I was just kissing Felicia and she was kissing me. I was seeing red, fueled by hurt and anger at Dawn as well as my own pure lust for the hot 21-year-old. And whatever reasons Felicia had for making out with me, she had just as much energy and passion as I did.
   Suitable for the cold weather, Felicia had been wearing a baggy, hooded UCLA sweatshirt. The minute my hands dug underneath it and found nothing but bare skin, she abruptly lifted off me and flung the heavy cotton over her head, just narrowly missing the half-empty coffee mug she’d set down on the table. Her nice tits were wonderfully supported by her bra, an expensive and lacey design better suited to a luxurious penthouse than a cabin in the woods. Not that I minded at all.
   With a burst of energy I rolled us over so that I was on top and began kissing my way down her chest. Felicia moaned in amazement,“Damn you’re a good kisser!”
   I filed away the praise for later ego boosting and concentrated on the silky smooth skin I was gliding over, my lips running over the swells of her breasts before I came to the front clasp of her bra. Deftly unhooking it with expert skill (Stacey Whitehouse had favored the same style), I flung the cups away and quickly fastened myself around a perky nipple while Felicia clutched my head to her bosom. But almost as quickly, she started tugging me upwards by my arms, clearly directing my face back to hers so that we could once again lock lips. And this time, Felicia slid her hand into the waistband of my cargo pants, quickly searching out my cock in my boxers and wrapping her hand around my thick erection.
   “Ooh, you really ARE Big Ben, aren’t you?” Felicia grinned. “Nice and thick and juicy!”
   I grinned right back and resumed kissing her before she tilted her head to plant her pecks along my neck while I maneuvered myself until I was on my knees between her legs.
   She let go of my cock and pulled her hands out, moving them around to begin working the clasp of my pants.“Fuck me now, Ben. I’m dying to feel your hot, throbbing cock deep in my cunny. I haven’t been properly fucked since I got here and I need you. Fuck Greg, the jerk-off male whore. His dick isn’t even as big as yours. And screw your little slut Dawn. I’ll bet she puts out for just any piece of trash who comes on to her.”
   Felicia had worked my pants down my thighs by this point while I nursed her tits again. I was rock-hard and ready to go, but hearing the gorgeous brunette disparage Dawn set off a riot of alarm bells in my head. I went rigid, and I pulled my head back.“She’s not a slut,” I informed Felicia coldly.
   Already flush with arousal, Felicia just shrugged off my comment while she shrugged out of her sweat pants and panties.“Whatever, Ben. She’s not here. She’s with GREG. I’M here with you. My cunny is wet and begging for your dick.”
   I wanted in that cunny. I glanced down and saw the pink lips inviting me inside. I saw my long dick aiming into position, just inches away from her heavenly gates. But then my gaze flicked back up into Felicia’s bewitching grey eyes. She was still aroused and angry and wired up with too much energy, but my comment clearly hadn’t sunk in. I felt it was very important that no matter what she and I did, no matter what faults I may have had, that she understand Dawn’s true nature. “She’s not a slut,” I repeated. “She hasn’t have sex with anyone but me. And I’m pretty sure she hasn’t had sex with Greg.”
   “You sure?” Felicia growled. “You sure she’s not fucking him right now?”
   Blinking in surprise, I realized that I WAS. I was sure. I LOVED Dawn. And I knew she loved me. Yeah, her flirting with Greg made me a little jealous. The guy was better looking and taller and older and clearly more charming socially. True, Felicia claimed I had a bigger dick (which yes, made up for a lot), but she might have just been blowing sunshine up my ass.
   But the fact was, Dawn had resisted temptation for so long, not even having sex with Mark. And I believed her. If either of us was fallible, it was ME. I was the one who had a track record of just falling into bed whenever my emotions got the best of me… like right now.
   True, I thought I’d seen Greg and Dawn making out. Maybe she had a good reason and maybe she didn’t. But I didn’t have a good reason for what I was doing with Felicia. It wasn’t right. At the very least, I had to talk it out with her before I made rash judgments. She had never betrayed me before. I owed it to her to find out the truth now.
   And I owed it to ME. The first time I’d cheated had just been pure hormones. Adrienne was fucking hot and I couldn’t resist. Yeah, she was threatening me with Keira’s exposure, but I’d let my dick answer for me. The second time I’d imagined Adrienne’s flirting had gone past the line into sex with Jake. I’d convinced myself that people at that social elite level cheated as a matter of course. But really, I’d missed Cassidy and my driving goal had been my own selfish desire to have sex with her. And even when Adrienne had forgiven me and wanted to make up, I’d already thrown away any restraint and boned Donna Kincaid.
   Not again.
   NOT. AGAIN.
   Do SOMETHING mature, Ben. Think before you screw. What would I get out of this with Felicia? A hot body and a good memory, but nothing lasting. I’d had enough of those, hadn’t I? Felicia was probably just using me out of a vindictive desire to lash out at Greg anyways. And even if Dawn had slipped and was making out with Greg, maybe even if she was fucking him right now, she meant so much more to me than Felicia. If I could just think past the next thirty minutes of selfish pleasure, what I could possibly have with Dawn far outweighed anything I could have with Felicia.
   Which meant I couldn’t do this. I LOVED Dawn. And I owed it to myself to honor that. And so sighing in frustration while my cock angrily throbbed just inches away from its goal, I suddenly rolled off of the naked model and started hoisting my cargo pants back up to my waist.
   “The fuck are you going?” Felicia barked in surprise.
   “Back,” I stated gruffly. “To Dawn.”
   “What?”
   “I gotta talk to her. I gotta make this work out.”
   “What? What about me?” The gorgeous brunette squealed.
   “You’ll be fine,” I assured her.
   “You can’t leave me like this! You DON’T leave me like this! I wanna fuck! Come ON, Ben. Don’t you want to get back at Greg and Dawn for what they’re doing to us?”
   “We’re not gonna happen, Felicia. Not tonight. Maybe never. I don’t know. But I’ve gotta talk to Dawn.”
   “WHY? She’s a slut you caught making out with MY fucking ex-boyfriend! The fuck is wrong with you guys at camp? First, Greg had the nerve to dump ME last year. Now this? THIS does NOT happen to ME!!!” Felicia shrieked.
   I looked around, spotting my exit.“Well… it just did.” I pulled my sweatshirt over my head and headed out the door. “Say ‘hi’ to your parents for me, Felicia.”
   And then I was gone.* * *
   Dawn was waiting for me as I approached my cabin. She stood up from the steps where she’d been sitting, hugging herself tightly in her own sweatshirt. “Ben! Where’d you go? I’ve been looking for you! Brooke said you took off angry.”
   I was glad to see her, happy that I wasn’t catching her naked and writhing beneath Greg’s sweaty body. But I still wasn’t thrilled with her at that moment. I stomped up and asked coldly. “What the hell were you doing with Greg Kinomoto?”
   She paled in the porch light and a worried expression came on her face.“Nothing.” Her tone was that of a 6-year-old caught with her hand in the cookie jar.
   “Dawn, don’t fucking lie to me. I SAW you,” I growled.
   “Nothing! Really. I mean… it wasn’t MUCH.”
   “But it was still SOMETHING. Notnothing,” I accused, pointing a finger at her. “I SAW you kissing him!”
   “No!” A look of horror crossed Dawn’s face. “I didn’t kiss him!”
   “Don’t fucking LIE to me, Dawn. I SAW you.”
   “NO,” Dawn said coldly. “I didn’t kiss him. He kissed me and I slapped him for it.”
   “Huh?” My face scrunched up in half-surprise and half-disbelief. “What the hell were you doing hiding in the bushes with him?”
   “I was cold. He offered me his jacket.”
   “Then why didn’t he just go and get it for you? Why’d you have to go back there for it?”
   “Well, uh, uh,” Dawn stammered. “I wasn’t thinking. He just said, ‘Come on’ and I went with him to get it. And then he wrapped it around me and then he was putting it on me…”
   “And then you kissed him!”
   “No, Ben!” Dawn protested. “I told you. He kissed ME!”
   “And how long was it before you slapped him?” Both my eyebrows popped up. “Hmm?”
   “Uh… well… I…” Dawn stammered again.
   “One minute? Two? Five?” I growled, not letting her off.
   At that point, my girlfriend burst into tears.“I’m SORRY, Ben. I didn’t mean it. All I had racing through my head was that Dayna was going to besooo jealous when I told her Greg kissed me. He’s cute. He gets my heart racing. But I don’t have feelings for him at all. And I knew it wasn’t right. So I broke it off and slapped him.”
   “Then what?” I challenged.
   “I handed him his jacket and ran away,” Dawn pleaded. “I came to find you!”
   I sighed, upset. But if we were talking no more than a kiss that she enjoyed for a little while, I could live with it. I knew Greg was a hunk and the Evans girls all thought he was dreamy. But in the end, she’d slapped him and left. Besides, I knew I’d been guilty of much worse. Frowning, my eyes narrowed as I coolly evaluated my girlfriend. “That’s it?”
   “That’s it. I swear, Ben. I’ll never let him near me again,” Dawn promised and stepped towards me, clearly looking for forgiveness and eager to hug me.
   “Okay,” I sighed. “Okay. It’s okay.”
   “Really?” Dawn’s heart seemed to mend in a half-second. A hopeful, happy expression crossed her face, and when I opened my arms, she eagerly leaped at me.
   Gawd damn it felt good to have Dawn in my arms. I LOVED her. I had that deep emotional connection with her, and feeling the physical touch of her body against me amplified all those pleasant emotions
   But just when I was starting to relax and breathe easier, Dawn tensed. Her hands gripped a little tighter and after another slow second, she pulled her head back and stared accusingly into my eyes.
   One sniff. Then two. I watched the light wrinkle of Dawn’s petite nose before she leaned forward again and fixed her brilliant blue gaze right on me. And in a cutting voice that would have sliced through glaciers, Dawn spat, “Who the FUCK were YOU with, Ben?”
   I gulped.
   Her eyebrows went up and it was clear I wasn’t getting out of this without coughing up a name. I blanched and then managed to spit out, “Felicia.”
   She didn’t hit me. She didn’t even grip me any harder. Dawn just let her head tilt to the side in a look of utter disappointment and it seemed like all the air went out of her. She released me almost immediately and turned away, stomping off three steps before turning back to me.
   Shaking her head in disgust, my girlfriend looked at the floor and muttered,“You always said you’d screw things up… ‘Don’t get close, Dawn. I’m a stupid, stupid boy and I’ll screw things up.’” Then she picked her head up and gave me that glaring blue gaze. “Did you fuck her?”
   Thank God I hadn’t. “No, I didn’t,” I said honestly.
   “Then why is her smell all over you?” Dawn’s eyes were still accusatory.
   I sighed.“I was angry Dawn. You were kissing Greg.”
   “And that makes it right?”
   “What?” I barked defensively. “YOU can have a momentary lapse and I can’t?”
   “I’m not the one with the shitty track record here,” Dawn reminded me.
   “What happened to ‘I won’t judge and what’s past is past’?” I shot back. “I made a mistake and if it makes you feel any better, yeah, Felicia wanted to fuck!”
   “How is THAT supposed to make me feel better?” Dawn retorted shrilly.
   “Because I didn’t!” I reached forward and grabbed Dawn’s arms. “Don’t you get it? I LOVE you, Dawn Evans. I’ve loved you since our moms washed us side-by-side in the sink as infants. I’ve loved you since I scraped my knee and you kissed it to make it all better when we were five. And I’ve loved you every second we’ve been together since then. Don’t you understand? I fuck up every relationship I’m ever a part of. A hot chick throws herself at me and my dick takes over my thinking for me.”
   I sighed.“But not you. I couldn’t do it to you. I walked away from Felicia. I SAW you making out with Greg Kinomoto. I had every reason to just say the hell with it and get my revenge fuck from Felicia. But I didn’t. I don’t know how better to prove my love to you, Dawn. I CAN’T lose you.”
   Dawn steamed but ground her teeth together.“So you didn’t fuck her?”
   “No.”
   “Did she go down on you?”
   I pulled my head back.“No.”
   “You go down on her?”
   “No!” I insisted, shaking my head.
   “You kiss her?”
   I bit my lip, wincing and nodding.
   “You do some petting?”
   I groaned and grudgingly admitted.“Yeah, did YOU?”
   Dawn paled, looking away. I wondered just how far Greg had gotten before she stopped him. I steamed inside, but I kept my temper in check.
   “Look,” I began. “We both made mistakes. But I learned something from this Dawn. I love you. I’m jealous of you. And I don’t want to do anything to screw this up. I’m committed to making this work. It’s a DANGEROUS thing. It could ruin our friendship if it doesn’t work out, and given the way our families are connected, that could be really, really awkward down the line.”
   I took a deep breath.“But this isus, Dawn. You said it yourself. I’m not just another guy. You’re not just another girl. We’re Ben and Dawn and we’ve been destined from birth to get married and have kids and unite our two families together. Okay? We’ll make it work.”
   Dawn managed a little smile.“We’ll make it work.”
   I opened my arms again and we came together for a fierce hug. Dawn whimpered and fought back tears, clutching me so tightly that she elevated one leg to wrap it behind mine.
   “Eww, get a room.”
   Dawn picked her head up in surprise and I twisted around to see the twins walking up to us, followed closely by Brooke and DJ and then both sets of our parents.
   “Stop teasing them, Emma,” Mom warned sternly.
   “But Brooke says it all the time!” Emma whined.
   I just chuckled while Dawn laughed, and we felt all the tension leave the both of us. I sighed and then held Dawn’s head in my hands, planting a firm kiss on her lips and willing myself to replace all trace of Felicia’s taste with the flavor of Dawn.
   “See you tomorrow,” I sighed when we were done.
   “Count on it,” Dawn smiled, a twinkle in her eye.* * *
   “Be careful guys,” Mom called out to the twins, who were making a beeline for their friends.
   “It’s frisbee golf, Mom,” Eden rolled her eyes. “How dangerous can it be?”
   “I just worry,” Mom replied and folded her arms across her chest as the twins raced across the field.
   “Laters,” Brooke and DJ hoisted their hiking gear, the multi-colored prints of their bikini tops showing through their T-shirts which were cinched by hair clips in the back to better hug their torsos and reveal their tight bellies. “And don’t forget what I asked, Ben,” Brooke reminded me with a hard look over at Dawn.
   I nodded and waved her off, lest our parents get suspicious. The cute 15-year-olds set off. Dawn then came over and slipped her hand into mine.“See you guys at lunch,” I called to my parents, and hand-in-hand my girlfriend and I started the hike to our special spot.
   “Be back on time,” Mrs. Evans reminded us. “We’ve got plans for you at lunch.”
   “Of course, Mom,” Dawn replied. And then silently, Dawn squeezed my hands three times in a subtle, “I. Love. You.” I squeezed back and felt my spirits lifting.
   Last night, while not earth-shattering, had been a turning point in our relationship. Neither of us had ever been heavily pursued by a member of the opposite sex at camp before. And now we’d both been hit on by two of the most beautiful people within a hundred miles.
   And we’d still chosen each other.
   Minutes after we arrived, Dawn’s back hit the blankets on top of the ground mat, her arms wrapped behind my head as our faces pressed tightly together, our tongues intertwining in each other’s mouth. A gentle breeze came down the canyon and across the creek, blowing cool air across my naked back as I centered my body over hers. The same breeze rustled the bushes, partially masking the sound of Dawn’s sigh as she felt my cockhead separating her moist labia. And then nothing would stifle the sound of her happy moan at feeling my thick shaft burrowing ever deeper into the core of her body.
   Dawn was still incredibly tight, her vaginal walls hugging close to my penetrating rod, providing exquisite friction with every surrendered millimeter. And she did surrender them. Every part of her was welcoming and inviting, urging me deeper with her pants and breathy moans.
   And through it all, our eyes stayed locked together. By keeping that visual focus, we could feel the bonds of love and affection and see them in each other’s eyes. Strengthened by a lifetime of partnership, we let our friendship and trust grow until it filled every fiber of our beings, so that every twitch and caress was a physical manifestation of our emergent unity.
   Dawn and I were truly making love. My thrusts were slow and full. Her hips rolled to meet me, but we never came together with heavy force nor meaty thumps. We simply stroked together. We didn’t even kiss. We didn’t need to. So much more was expressed in our eyes and in the way our noses rubbed together.
   The books say girls have two types of orgasms: clitoral and vaginal. Even a girl’s anal orgasms are usually a combination of those anal nerves plus rubbing at the clit to push them over the edge. But Dawn definitely had a third-type. An orgasm of love. An orgasm of feeling so intimately connected to your partner that your body literally has no choice but to explode in ecstasy, lest the overabundance of emotions simply overwhelm your senses.
   I lost track of how many time Dawn writhed with one of those; but there was no mistaking when the vaginal orgasm came. It was preceded by shortened gasps for air, little squeaks accelerating in pace and in pitch. Her eyes tightened as the rush of feeling rolled down her spine and caused her to arch her chest against me. And as the pleasure swept through her insides, her mouth gaped open to scream.
   But instead of crying out in sheer bliss, Dawn merely grasped my head and stared deep into my eyes. Sweat was dripping off her brow, her face a mask of pleasure and her irises alight with brilliant blue fire. And with her last burst of oxygen, she moaned,“I love you, Ben. I always loved you. And I will always love you.”
   I’d said the phrase ‘I love you’ to many girls in my life. Sometimes I felt like I meant it. To others I just said it because it was what they wanted to hear. But not this time. Today, I had three words that were far more special, because exactly one year ago today Dawn and I had truly begun this journey to become more than just childhood friends.
   So I replied,“Happy birthday, Dawn,” and my own orgasm ignited. And together, we let our pleasure carry us away.
   Chapter 19: Little SistersJULY 2001, SUMMER CAMP
   Dawn and I arrived at the table for lunch, both of us with warm smiles on our faces and twinkles in our eyes. How could we not be happy? We were in LOVE. And it wasn’t just puppy love or teenage infatuation. I didn’t feel the rush of “new love” like I had with Keira or Adrienne. It wasn’t even the pleasant but slightly awkward transition from friendship to romance like with Megan and Cassidy.
   It just felt… right. I’d literally known Dawn for my entire life, and the progression of our relationship, while rapidly advancing these past three summers like puberty, felt completely natural. When we first realized in grade school that we had private parts that didn’t match, we showed them to each other to try and figure it out. When our bodies first started undergoing the great change out of childhood, we similarly explored those changes together. And when hormones began to percolate through our veins, we let those feelings out with each other.
   Dawn was the first girl I held hands with. She was my first kiss. We then explored masturbation with each other, and I was the one to introduce Dawn to the wonderful pleasures of sex. Didn’t it just make sense that we really explore what true love meant together? Maybe it really was destiny.
   Our parents beamed at us as we arrived. Both sets of parents knew their now 17-year-old children had probably just had sex with each other, and yet there was nothing but approval in their eyes. Eden and Emma looked at us with little smiles, confident that they were witnessing the ideal romantic coupling, right up there with Sleeping Beauty, Cinderella, and (as they put it) Beauty and the Beast.
   Guess which one I was.
   But two people at the table weren’t giving us lovey-dovey looks. DJ caught Dawn’s attention and something was communicated non-verbally between the two sisters. And Brooke gave me a pointed look, before deliberately sweeping her gaze over to Dawn and then back again to me. Her question was clear: ‘Have you talked to her yet?’
   I grimaced in apology and shook my head in the negative. I knew what Brooke wanted. She’d made her intentions quite clear, even going so far as to crawl into bed with me this morning so that I awoke with my little sister’s head on my chest and her hand on my morning wood.
   It wasn’t that the idea was distasteful to me. Brooke WAS growing up into quite the hottie, with just enough resemblance to Brandi to start my engines revving and enough prettiness and curves of her own to keep my engines that way. I had no problems with incest. And I’d finally accepted for myself that Brooke was old enough to begin her sexual explorations.
   But I was still just nine days into my newfound relationship with Dawn. I loved her. She talked of marriage someday. And we’d already agreed to somehow maintain a long-distance relationship come August.
   I believed Dawn would accept Brooke’s desires to explore her sexuality with me. After all, Dawn had already shown comfortability with incest, given her dalliances with her own sister and in her knowledge of my affair with Brandi. She’d even let me fuck Dayna every which way from Sunday last summer.
   And yet I was still hesitant to raise the subject with Dawn. I still had the noble of idea of monogamy in my head. After all, I’d never really been monogamous before. But didn’t Dawn deserve all of me? Wasn’t the point of being so completely in love that I should devote my entire self to one woman?
   And what if Dawn was threatened by Brooke? No girlfriend of mine had ever thrown a fit over me screwing Keira or Dawn or Brandi because none of them KNEW about those side-affairs. I’d compartmentalized them away as “not counting”, satisfying my own conscience. But that’s not to say my girlfriend at the time would have been so generous if she’d known.
   When I indicated that I’d still not yet approached Dawn with what Brooke was asking for, my little sister’s face went through a riot of emotions. Disappointment was first, as if she were waiting for a desired package to arrive only to find that it had been delayed yet again. Anger with me came next, accusing me (rightfully so) for being the cause of said delay. And sadness. Brooke loved me and desired me, for a variety of reasons, and doubt was starting to creep into her mind that I would ever fulfill my promise.
   That last look broke my heart. As much as I loved Dawn, I owed it to my sister to keep up my end of the bargain and at least raise the subject. So sighing, I resolved to talk to my girlfriend that afternoon. She would understand Brooke’s desires. She’d have to understand, even if she didn’t necessarily agree.
   I hoped Dawn would say‘yes’. If not, I wasn’t sure what I would do. I loved both Dawn and Brooke. And I really didn’t want to have to make any choices between them.* * *
   I spent the first hour after lunch trying to work up how to raise the“Brooke” issue with Dawn. She had something on her mind as well, and so we spent that hour just laying out by the lake, holding hands casually and trying to relax while letting our meals digest.
   But presently, a small commotion caught our attention a hundred yards away from us across the curve in the lake. Greg Kinomoto was reclining on a lounge chair with some of his friends, ranging in age from 19 to 23. There were two bikini-clad girls giggling and laughing and flirting with them, a normal event. But what had alerted Dawn and I was that the voices were VERY familiar.
   Dawn saw them first, and she instinctively bolted out of her chair just seconds before I did. It was Brooke and DJ, and our 15-year-old little sisters had no business flirting with such older men. Despite her developed figure, DJ in her pigtails looked even younger and the situation looked rather disturbing with the fully grown men predatorily circling her.
   I actually outran Dawn across the beach, arriving just after Brooke had plopped herself into Greg’s lap, wriggling her tight underage ass against his crotch. And just over ten seconds after leaving my lounge chair, I arrived on the scene, roughly snatched my sister’s wrist, and bodily yanked her up. “The FUCK are you doing?” I yelled in her face.
   Dawn arrived just then and similarly pulled DJ back and away from Connor Metcalfe, a prototypical California surfer boy six years older than her.“Dawnnn!” DJ complained.
   “We’re leaving,” Dawn growled at her little sister.
   “We aren’t doing anything wrong!” Brooke whined and tried to jerk her wrist out of my grasp.
   “Hey, come on, babe,” Greg spread his hands with a charming smile on his face. “The girls and us were just chatting.”
   Dawn whirled on Greg and without warning, slapped his cheek with enough force to rotate his head around. The big guy winced and held a hand to his cheek protectively while glaring at Dawn. But the 17-year-old blonde just stared him down.“You stay away from our sisters, got it? They may look all adult but they’re barely fifteen and you KNOW it.”
   Greg grimaced and glared at her, but he nodded his head.
   Together, Dawn and I marched our little sisters away. But once we got back to our original lounge chairs, they both shook themselves free of our grasp and whirled to face us.
   “You can’t be there every time, Dawn,” DJ said darkly. “It’s gonna happen again, one way or another.”
   Dawn just looked in horror at her little sister, and meanwhile Brooke put her hands on her hips while glaring at me.“You promised, Ben. If you can’t keep your promises, what faith do I have left in you?”
   And with that, Brooke slipped her hand into DJ’s and the two younger teens took off, headed for parts unknown.
   Dawn visibly deflated as she exhaled, a look of pain on her face. I felt my own heart sinking, and simultaneously, Dawn and I turned to each other and said,“We need to talk.”* * *
   Neither Dawn nor I felt comfortable saying anything out in the open where we were. I wouldn’t have even felt comfortable at our special clearing. People just don’t go around telling their girlfriends that their little sister wants to have sex with them, and I wanted to make absolutely sure we wouldn’t be overheard.
   There were too many people by the lake, period. The cabin walls weren’t soundproof. And it was too easy for someone who knew us to sneak behind some bushes by our special spot. In the end, I decided on an open field within the camp borders that had a single, solitary tree in the middle of it. At least there, I figured if we kept our voices controlled no one could overhear, and we could see in 360 degrees if anyone was around us. Yeah, we’d be visible to passersby, but I wasn’t planning on getting naked or anything during this discussion.
   No sooner had we sat down than Dawn and I, as if on the same wavelength, both began,“I wasn’t sure how to say this…”
   I blinked in surprise and so did Dawn. She made as if to defer to me but my chivalrous instincts kicked in first and I waved her to continue. As if eager to get this off her chest, Dawn sighed and said,“I want to invite DJ to have sex with us.”
   My eyes popped wide open. I hadn’t been expecting that, and the surprise was evident on my face. Dawn just exhaled and continued, “I know DJ lost her virginity this past year. Her boyfriend was a jerk and I never liked him, but DJ did and that was all that mattered at the time. He smooth-talked her into it and then it was just three pumps and an apology. Apparently it was his first time too.”
   I frowned, not yet understanding how the story of DJ’s lost virginity would lead to Dawn inviting DJ to join us.
   “Anyways, they tried it once more, and it was just as pathetic. That kind of ruined DJ’s perception of the guy as a manly hunk and she dumped him. Shortly after that, we came up to camp and DJ told me in no uncertain terms that she was going to, quote, ‘do it right’.”
   I arched an eyebrow and Dawn signed mournfully, shaking her head sadly. Then she continued,“Now DJ’s flirted with most of the guys her own age around camp and managed to not do anything stupid just yet, because she and Brooke are having sex together and that’s taken the urgency off for these first few days. But my little sister is dead set on getting properly laid, and I’m afraidshe’s begun to turn her attentions to older men who are just going to prey on her. She’s convinced that an ‘older man’ will have more experience and be a better lover. I’m convinced that guys like Greg and Connor will just use her and leave her.”
   I was starting to get what Dawn was alluding to, and I had to admit that my loins liked the idea. DJ wasvery cute. And yet my arousal was tempered both by the pained look in Dawn’s eyes and my own current worries about Brooke. I still hadn’t gotten my little request off my chest and I couldn’t relax until I did.
   Dawn sighed.“When we first got here, DJ asked me if she could join us, make a threesome out of it. I told her I didn’t want to share. I was in love, Ben. I wanted you all to myself, you know?”
   I nodded.
   “But now I’m afraid that things will be worse if DJ finds some other stranger. I trust you Ben. I’m still not sure I want to share you, but I trust you. Can you do this and make it good for her, but still love me?” Dawn’s lower lip quivered.
   I didn’t answer immediately, instead moving forward to kiss my girlfriend tenderly. She sighed happily and wrapped her hands behind my head to more firmly kiss me back. And when we pulled away, I looked her in the eye and said, “I’ll always love you. You never have to worry aboutthat. No matter what else happens to us, you will always come first.”
   Belatedly, I got the innuendo and I grinned.“And if you want, I can make sure you alwayscum first.”
   Dawn rolled her eyes, but the vulgar humor broke some of the tension and she managed a wry grin.“I’m still not entirely sure I’m comfortable with letting her join us. She’s just a kid, you know?”
   I sighed and rolled my eyes, thinking of Brooke.“Believe me, I know.”
   “But then I think of what we were doing when we were fifteen,” Dawn continued. “Maybe we weren’t having sex yet, but the two of us got pretty hot and heavy. And I guess DJ’s just developed a little faster than me. It’s not like she’s still a virgin.” She shrugged helplessly.
   I took a deep breath.“But Brooke is.”
   “Brooke?” Dawn sat up straight and gave me a funny look. “What’s this got to do with Brooke?”
   I exhaled and gathered my strength, looking around the field to make sure no one was within earshot.“I wasn’t sure how to say this, but Brooke wants ME to be her first.”
   Dawn smirked and a twinkle came into her eyes.“Ohhh… Okay, that makes sense.”
   My eyebrows shot up in confusion.“Makes sense?”
   “She’s been giving you these weird looks all summer and every time she did, I would watch you tense up,” Dawn smiled. “Now I know why. I’d started to guess anyways.”
   “We don’t have to,” I put in hurriedly. “I promised I’d be loyal. I love you, Dawn. And Brooke knows that. I’d never do anything to—”
   “Ben, Ben,” Dawn calmed me down. Her posture relaxed even more. “It’s okay. She’s your sister. I get it.”
   “But—”
   “And after all, didn’t we just agree to let DJ join us? If I can accept you having sex with my sister, I can certainly accept you having sex with yours. Brooke loves you, Ben. I get it.”
   I arched an eyebrow.“Really?”
   “Makes sense. It’s the same reason I’d rather you be the one DJ learns sex from. Yeah, DJ’s not a virgin, but she hasn’t had good sex either.” Dawn smiled and leaned back with both arms, which thrust her chest forward and began to stimulate my arousal. “We can both teach them. After all, we’re their big siblings. I taught DJ, now it’s your turn to teach Brooke.”
   “But that’s different, you’re both girls,” I frowned.
   “Not so different. Sex is sex. Learning is learning. And I don’t have a dick for DJ to learn with.” Dawn grinned. “Hell, if Dayna had been a boy, I would have lost my virginity to my big brother instead of you,” she laughed.
   Feeling the tension drain out of me, I started laughing too. And then Dawn let out a big sigh of relief.“You know, I thought I was going to feel really jealous and uncomfortable at the idea of DJ sleeping with you. She’s still so young and we’re only nine days into really being boyfriend/girlfriend. But now that it’s here, I don’t mind at all.”
   “Really?”
   Dawn smiled sweetly.“I love my little sister, Ben. I want to protect her and see her happy. And knowing she can learn with you far outweighs any jealousy of mine. It’s not like you’re going to go fall in love with her, will you?”
   I shook my head.“Not planning on it. But I will warn you Dawn, one thing I’ve learned is that it’s not as simple as a few orgasms and a few pointers. Once you’ve slept with someone, it changes things… forever.”
   “Yeah,” Dawn smiled and pulled my face to hers, rubbing our noses together. “It brings us closer. You’ll have tapped all three Evans sisters, Ben. And I’ve already had sex with Brandi. Now we’re just binding our two families as close as they can possibly be.”* * *
   “So how is this gonna work?” DJ asked, fidgeting nervously. Dawn looked reassuringly at her little sister while I held Brooke’s hand, similarly trying to instill her with calmness and confidence.
   “There’s no pressure,” I said in a gentle tone, looking at Dawn while I said this. “We can do as little or as much as you guys are comfortable with, even if it means doing nothing.” And I meant it. Sure, the horndog part of me wanted to bury my tool inside cute DJ, whose tight body and flowing blonde hair reminded me of Dawn at fifteen. And I was certainly aroused by the naughty idea of having sex with my virginal little sister. But the nice guy in me was coming out again. No pressure. Never. And while I hadn’t been that close to DJ, she was a friend and very important to my family, and I couldn’t bear to do anything to her that she might regret.
   Now if I couldn’t do anything like that to DJ, I certainly could never force myself on Brooke. I resolved that if I saw the slightest hesitation in her, I would call this whole thing off, like I had with Megan way back when.
   “Why don’t you two just hang back,” Dawn suggested. “Ben and I will get things going and if you feel comfortable enough, just join in.” The breeze off the creek picked up just then and blew through my girlfriend’s hair, sending it fluttering to the side of her while she turned her beautiful face to me. I saw the sparkle in her clear blue eyes. Whatever reservations she might have over letting me, her love, have sex with her little sister and my little sister, Dawn was clearly excited by the situation.
   I lay back across the blankets as Dawn crawled over me. She paused to remove her baby T-shirt, leaving her upper body clad only in her bra as she bent down to taste my lips. And as the heavenly pleasures of our kiss began spreading through my body, I felt my own tension over the situation starting to melt away.
   My shirt came off shortly afterwards, followed by Dawn’s bra. She then rose up on her knees and went through the awkward gymnastics of removing her shorts and panties until she’d fully undressed, and then rolled onto her back as I similarly got myself completely naked. We moved together with the ease and comfort of lovers quite familiar with each other’s bodies, and even through closed eyes we instinctively knew where to move next in order to maximize each other’s pleasure.
   “Ohhh, Ben…” Dawn sighed when she settled her crotch over mine. My long dick, trapped against my own belly, nestled in the cleft of Dawn’s juicing pussy. And while my kisses trailed down her neck, she slid forward to offer her swollen breasts to my lips. I nursed happily on one while manually stimulating the other as she began to glide her torso back and forth, using my dick as a rail.
   “Ohhh, shit…” said a voice that sounded like Dawn’s, and yet wasn’t Dawn’s. I turned my head to the side to see DJ writhing in clear arousal. Her T-shirt was shoved up above her big and growing breasts so that she could tweak her own nipple. And her shorts were unbuttoned and opened enough so that a hand could dip beneath and rub inside.
   But it wasn’t her own hand; it was Brooke’s. My little sister manually masturbated her best friend, and was leaning over with her chin on DJ’s shoulder. Brooke’s eyes were heavy-lidded as she watched Dawn and I rutting against each other, no doubt partially imagining herself in Dawn’s position.
   “I’m gonna fuck you now, Ben,” Dawn husked, drawing my attention back to my lover. “I’m going to lift up and impale myself on this thick piece of man meat. And I’m gonna give our little sisters a great look at your big dick spearing its way into my tight pussy.”
   The younger girls gasped at that pronouncement, and their eyes were locked onto our crotches as Dawn raised herself to do just as she had said. DJ’s eyes in particular went wide open as she ogled my seven-and-five-eighths column of manflesh, and she held her breath as her older sister spread her moist labia around the mushroom head and then held the position for a few extra seconds.
   “OHHH!” Dawn groaned as she sank herself down the first two inches, letting her head loll back as she concentrated on feeling my invasion. Now it was Brooke’s turn to gasp as she watched, enraptured by the sight of my thick dick penetrating inside of Dawn’s wet snatch. And then all three girls were staring downward as Dawn sank herself inch after inch until I was completely buried inside my girlfriend.
   For a long minute, I just savored the feeling of being inside Dawn, the girl I loved. Even without moving, her tightness and the intimacy I felt for her were more than enough to keep me aroused and interested, and I rested my hands on her hips as we stared lovingly into each other’s eyes. And then after that time of reflection, I let my hands run up to cup Dawn’s big tits, a happy smile crossing my face as I played with my favorite toys in the world. Dawn giggled at my enthusiasm and then she began to lift and lower herself on me, now beginning the actual sex act as shewhimpered out her pleasure.
   Dawn and I last year had explained quite a bit about sex. Our younger sisters would ask questions about various body parts like the clitoris and a man’s testicles. We had explained the basic sexual positions and more or less informed them that any position that resulted in penetration worked, as long as the two participants enjoyed it. We ourselves mostly stuck to missionary and girl-on-top, because they just felt the best.
   But there’s a difference between verbal explanation and show-and-tell. And for the first time, DJ and Brooke were actually witnessing us. DJ’d had sex herself before. Brooke had at least watched me and Brandi. So it wasn’t all new. But for the two 15-year-old girls, it was still spellbinding.
   And the girls had not just been idly watching us. I glanced to the side and found that both DJ and Brooke had gotten themselves naked and had their hands all over each other while they watched us. Presently, DJ was suckling Brooke’s breast and fingering my little sister’s clit while the young brunette stared at her brother being fucked by his girlfriend. And when DJ moved her face up a little higher and captured Brooke’s lips in a firm, urgent kiss, I felt an extra jolt of energy lance through my cock as I thrust upwards and lifted Dawn a few inches, purely from the excitement of seeing my little sister locking lips with her cute young friend.
   “Unnngh, Ben! You feel so good inside me!” Dawn crooned. “I love you, baby! I love feeling you fucking me! Unnngh! I’m cumming! I’m cumming!”
   “Holy shit that’s hot!” DJ moaned while Brooke rubbed her clit. My sister removed her head from DJ’s nice, large breasts and turned to look at what DJ was exclaiming about. DJ herself continued, “My sister’s cumming on your brother’s cock, Brooke!”
   She was. Dawn was in the throes of a powerful orgasm, her back arched, her neck muscles bulging, and her eyes tilted skyward. Dawn screamed out her climax to echo off the canyon walls, and soon I was joining her.
   “Ugh! Ugh!” I grunted in warning, my hands back on Dawn’s hips as I clutched her body tightly against my crotch. My back rose up and off the blanket as I curled inwards, and then I erupted wave after wave of hot lava into my girlfriend’s vaginal cavity.
   “Oh, Dawn!” I howled with delight, and together we showed our sisters what real happiness was all about.* * *
   A couple minutes later, after I was done spunking Dawn and we both finished off our orgasms, the tall, beautiful blonde collapsed backwards off me, her chest heaving upwards as she panted for air. DJ quickly moved over and on all fours, tilted her head to look at her big sister.“Can I taste it?”
   Dawn got a goofy grin on her face and then nodded. And all of a sudden her well-fucked and satisfied expression changed into a contorted grimace of pleasure as she felt her little sister’s tongue darting into her semen-soaked channel.
   Brooke was a little slower to react but no less aroused, as she moved to all fours above me and shyly asked,“Can I taste it?”
   This was it. Yeah, Brooke had put me in her mouth before, back when I was unconscious and I’d thought she was Brandi. But this was the moment of acceptance, the time when we both would knowingly and willingly cross the boundary of incest. I searched my sister’s eyes for any signs of hesitation, and finding none, I nodded my approval.
   And then it was my eyes rolling up into my head as I groaned with pleasure at the feelings of my little sister taking several inches of my still-sensitive cock into her hot little mouth.
   I’d seen Brooke giving a blowjob to Perry once before. And her technique now wasn’t much different, leaving a lot to be desired as she hoovered me at a single speed while bobbing her head up and down. So once I got over my initial shock at knowing it was Brooke sucking my dick, I started coaching her the same way I had Megan so long ago, or the Sanders twins just recently. I explained how she was currently working to get or keep me hard after a recent orgasm, and how that differed from blowing me to get me off. I reminded her to watch her teeth, and I made suggestions for varying her technique and adding her hands into the mix. Brooke soaked it up like a sponge, and very quickly she had me at full mast and ready to go.
   When she realized this, that scared little-girl look came into her expression and Brooke popped her mouth off my dick and stared at it wide-eyed in awe. The thick column, topped by a big mushroom head, looked rather imposing from up close and I had to admit, Brooke’s hand looked so small wrapped around it. I felt just a bit of my rigidity fading as I looked at Brooke become a little frightened at the possibilities of what might come next, but just as I was about to say something, she turned around and said, “OK, DJ. He’s ready.”
   Dawn was moaning and holding her little sister’s head to her crotch while DJ slurped up the last of my cream from Dawn’s wet box. “Mmm, yummy,” DJ grinned.
   “Cumslut,” Dawn giggled.
   “Runs in the family,” DJ laughed. And then with a predatory gaze with absolutely no hesitation whatsoever, the 15-year-old blonde vixen crawled over to me and Brooke.
   I kept my gaze on DJ’s pretty face the whole way, only briefly letting my eyes dip to drink in her nice body. True to Evans form, she had big breasts that hung and swayed pleasantly as she moved on all fours. She was still a little skinny around the hips and waist, not yet grown into full womanhood. And she had the same sparkle of arousal in her crystal clear blue eyes that Dawn showed me from time to time.
   Then DJ moved over me and without further ado, the youngest Evans sister dropped her mouth to mine and gave me a VERY good approximation of Dawn’s volcanic kiss. Her lips molded themselves to mine and pushed my head back against the blanket with some good pressure. Her tongue pressed forth and parried my tongue to the side. And she moaned in obvious heat while dropping her naked torso on top of me, crushing those tits into my chest and rubbing herself urgently against my naked flesh.
   Eventually, DJ broke back for air and sighed happily.“I always knew you’d be a great kisser, Ben.”
   I grinned at the younger girl’s obvious confidence and enthusiasm. She was a budding Dayna just waiting to grow up. “Likewise, kiddo,” I smiled.
   The blonde teen returned to kissing me and eventually she took hold of my shoulders and rolled us over. With some urgency, she maneuvered my hips around until I was lying between her spread thighs, and she lifted her knees into the air while wriggling her crotch around the blanket until she felt my erection nudging up against her pussy. There was no hesitation, no waiting to look at big sister Dawn. There was no brief discussion of our feelings for one another or concern for how this might change our friendship. DJ wanted to fuck, and to fuck well.
   “C’mon, Ben,” DJ urged. “Show me what’s got both of my older sisters raving about what a stud you are. Show me what good fucking is supposed to feel like. Take me to heaven!”
   And with that, I pivoted my hips, re-aimed my cock, and slowly began sinking my way into my youngest ever lover.
   I didn’t get very far. DAMN! DJ was TIGHT! Even though she wasn’t a virgin, according to Dawn she’d only had sex twice before and my predecessor clearly had a smaller dick, for DJ winced as she was stretched farther than ever before. It wasn’t a question of lubrication; DJ’s pussy was a swampedinferno. But even with my toes scrabbling against the blanket’s surface and me focusing all my weight through my crotch, I could only manage a steady push that took a full two minutes before I was fully lodged inside DJ’s near-virginal pussy.
   “Holy shit you’re big!” DJ groaned and clutched at me. I could feel her heartbeat through her vaginal walls, which seemed to be pulsing against me with a steady [bum-BUMP] [bum-BUMP].
   “You’re so fucking tight!” I grunted and fought to stave off my impending orgasm, overstimulated by those pussy wall pulses. No wonder her boyfriend had popped off after only three strokes. And as I concentrated all my efforts on not bursting, I let my head move down to rest on the blanket beside DJ’s head.
   She patted my back and got herself used to my thick invasion while I got myself used to her pulsing tightness. I’d nearly spurted into DJ’s 15-year-old pussy already, and the sudden memory of what happened to Allie Sanders set off an alarm in my head. “Are you safe?” I asked with some concern in my voice.
   DJ giggled and nodded.“Mom put me on the pill when I turned 15. And you’re the first one in me without a condom.”
   I looked to Dawn for confirmation, who was watching over us like a mother hen. She nodded and said,“Mom figured DJ would cut loose sometime this summer.”
   I sighed with some relief and then turned my head, pecking the young girl’s cheek. “I just don’t want to do anything to hurt you.”
   DJ winced but managed a wry grin.“Well, shoving a baseball bat up my cunt wasn’t exactly pleasant.”
   I chuckled and then pushed myself up so that I was holding my weight above her.“Really? I’ve been told this part is quite nice.” And with that, I retracted my hips back several inches before gently pushing my way back in. I reveled in the feeling of her body beneath me, so much like Dawn’s and yet not. She was literally just a thinner, slightly shorter, younger version of Dawn.
   When I pumped, DJ hissed and threw her head back, moaning in pleasure as she felt my thick shaft touching off every nerve she had in her pussy.“Yes… Fucking hell…”
   “Feel good, Deej?” Dawn asked with a smile.
   “Fuck, yeah,” DJ sighed happily as I began to push in and out of her tightness at a steady pace. “Knew this would work.”
   “Knew what would work?” Dawn arched her eyebrow.
   DJ smiled and put her hands on my biceps while I thrust in and out of her.“Mmm…” she moaned happily and then finally answered Dawn’s question. “Flirting with Greg Kinomoto.”
   “What?” Dawn asked with some alarm.
   Brooke was beside us, rubbing herself with one hand and caressing my back with the other while watching me fuck her best friend. She explained,“DJ only ever wanted to fuck Ben.”
   “I didn’t care about other random guys around camp,” DJ husked. “I want to be fucked right and there was only one guy I knew could do it. That’s you, Ben.” DJ picked her head up and kissed me fiercely. I groaned into the kiss and pistoned my cock in and out of her a little faster.
   Brooke finished up the explanation.“She was hoping she could talk you into it but you always seemed so reluctant. And I wanted Ben so badly but he only seemed to cave when I threatened to just go screw someone else to get my cherry popped. So we both came up with the idea of flirting with Greg and his buddies. Ever since that bonfire where he kissed you, you both seemed pretty pissed off at Greg and he’s avoiding the both of you. So we figured that if you were afraid we both might have sex with Greg, flirting with him would scare you guys enough to let us fuck Ben instead.”
   Far from upset, Dawn got a grin on her face.“Manipulative little bitches.”
   “You’d better believe it, sis,” DJ grunted with a grin and then immediately started moaning that an orgasm was sweeping over her. “Oh, FUCK! Ben! Fuck me! Fuck me harder! Deeper! I’m gonna cum!”
   DJ howled her way through that first climax, moaning the whole time about how it was her first orgasm during sex. Brooke was pretty close herself, and when she leaned in towards Dawn, the older blonde pulled my little sister in front of her, palming Brooke’s tits and rubbing the brunette teen’s clit until Brooke spasmed with her climax, eventually collapsing back against Dawn’s chest.
   “Thanks,” Brooke sighed happily.
   “Anytime,” Dawn grinned and then bent to peck Brooke on the lips with a cute kiss.
   “Fuck me from behind.” DJ’s command brought my attention back to the blonde 15-year-old beneath me. And I moved to obey by pulling out and sitting back on my heels, my thick shaft proudly jutting outwards.
   Unable to help herself, Dawn then swept down and took me into her mouth, savoring the taste of her little sister’s orgasmic nectar on my cock and giving me a few healthy sucks while DJ got into position on all fours with her tight, cute ass facing back at me. And then the younger girl barked at her older sister, “Hey! That’s mine!”
   “Just for now, Deej,” Dawn smiled. But she did tug on me and aimed my cock back towards her little sister’s snatch.
   “Ohhh…” DJ groaned as I slowly sank into her from behind, holding her narrow hips in my hands for leverage as I fought past her tightness to once again bury myself balls deep in the teenager’s bare-shaven twat. And then soon after, the air was filled with the sound of flesh impacting flesh as my pelvis repeatedly banged off of DJ’s firm, perky buttcheeks.
   Meanwhile, our sisters were not just lying back and watching. Dawn had lain down on her back and maneuvered Brooke into a sixty-nine position over her. And with a tease in her voice, Dawn said,“Now let’s see if Miss A.D.D. over there paid enough attention to my lessons to teach you properly.”
   “Whatever she taught me works just fine,” Brooke giggled.
   “Little one, you’re soon going to learn the difference between ‘just fine’ and ‘mind-blowing’.” And with that, Dawn dove in.
   So in our pairs, we thrust and humped and moaned and whined in ecstasy. I showed DJ what fucking was all about, with all the power and force and angles and depth necessary to do my version of blowing the young teenager’s mind. I even reached down and grabbed hold of DJ’s blonde pigtails, tugging back on them just hard enough to get her attention while I reamed her pussy from behind.
   At the same time, Dawn showed Brooke what expert rug-munching was all about, with all the titillations, caresses, and finger penetrations necessary to bring Brooke to climax over and over again.
   It became a little competition between Dawn and I. Who could make our 15-year-old cum more? Ultimately, I’ll admit that Dawn won that particular challenge. But I certainly made DJ scream the loudest when I popped a finger up her ass while groping her tits from behind and grinding my cock at full depth inside her tight cunt, my dickhead spitting out scalding hot semen against her sensitive inner walls.
   And in the end, when DJ was collapsed facedown with our mingled cum flowing like a river from her stretched and abused pussy, and when Brooke was panting on her back with a face covered in Dawn’s nectar, Dawn and I looked over at each other and smiled.
   The students had become the masters.* * *
   Remaining naked, the four of us took a break from fucking to relax and enjoy the perfect weather. Brooke and DJ seemed to revel in their nudity, having never gone completely bare while outdoors for this long before, and the two of them resolved to find their own“special spot” from which to do a little nude sunbathing and get frisky with each other.
   Momentarily sated, Dawn and I cuddled together and basked in our love for one another, my head propped up by my backpack and Dawn’s head resting on my chest while she idly ran her fingers along my ribs.
   DJ was in her own little world, staring glassy-eyed at the sky, absentmindedly rubbing one of her upright breasts while simultaneously stirring her finger inside the collection of cream still inside her recently-fucked pussy. Her expression was one of satisfied bliss, and she seemed to be reliving the experience quite happily.
   Brooke, on the other hand, was pensive. She was sitting up and leaning back on her arms, staring off at the creek before us. Every now and again she would glance at me for a few lingering seconds, and then turn away while biting her lower lip. Her posture was rigid and while her best friend was comfortably reminiscing about her sexual experience, Brooke seemed to be anxiously considering hers. This was the moment she’d been waiting for.
   Perhaps it would have been easier if Brooke had gone before DJ. Still flush with arousal and anticipation, she might have flung herself into my arms and gone through with her deflowering before she even really had time to think about it. But this way, after going through two sex rounds and a long break, Brooke now had all the time in the world to contemplate her next move, time that seemed to only make her more and more apprehensive.
   But even though I sensed some hesitation from Brooke, I wasn’t about to deny her again just yet. Everyone gets a little stage fright, and it was perfectly acceptable for her to show some nervousness before surrendering her virginity. This was part of the reason my sister had chosen me. She knew she could trust me to be gentle and considerate, and to do everything I could to calm her before taking any permanent action.
   The younger girls sensed the change in the wind when I lifted Dawn off me. My girlfriend rolled onto her side and propped her head up on one elbow while I leaned across the blankets and started rubbing Brooke’s naked back soothingly. On the other side of her, DJ sat up and looked on with interest, reaching over and squeezing her best friend’s hand. “You’ll love it, trust me,” DJ said earnestly. “It’s justdivine.”
   Biting her lip, Brooke nodded in understanding, but still hung her head forward. I leaned in and kissed my little sister’s shoulder and whispered, “You don’t have to do anything. I just want to make you happy, Brooke.”
   “I want to,” she whispered in a weak voice. And then a little stronger, “I want to.”
   “I know you do.” I leaned my head down and Brooke turned her head to me, a frightened look on her face as she seemed on the verge of tears. Then squeezing her eyes shut, she reached a hand to my cheek and then leaned in, pressing her lips firmly to mine.
   There’s something very unique about kissing your sisters. Beyond the lust and fire, there’s a chaste tenderness in the way it feels. It’s as if I’m kissing both my lover and family member at the same time. With Brooke, I communicated both physical and platonic love; and the only other person I’d ever felt this way with was Brandi. It was like there was a basic underlying trust in that moment, something that restrained our emotions.
   My relationships with girlfriends could possibly end. There was a recklessness to the way I kissed girlfriends and lovers because even if things went terribly awry, my life would go on without them in it. But that wasn’t the case with my sisters. No matter what, they would always be family, and I would always keep myself in check to prevent myself from hurting them. Even my relationship with Dawn, as close as we were, wasn’t as protective as my relationship with Brooke.
   So even as I felt the lust and desire from my little sister, I could also sense the fear. And still stroking her back, I rubbed soothingly and sought to do everything I could to calm her. I broke the kiss long enough to rub noses with her, and I stroked her cheek with the back of my fingers.“I love you, Brooke. Always, little sis.”
   “I love you, Ben,” she whimpered. “And I want this…”
   “But you’re still scared,” I finished for her. Brooke looked deep into my eyes and nodded.
   I smiled warmly. We weren’t going to do it right now. I was off the hook. “Okay. No problem. We don’t have to do this today and there’s a lot of camp left.”
   DJ moaned in disappointment when she realized her best friend wasn’t going to go through with it. “Aww…”
   Brooke flinched at that and immediately I turned to DJ, scolding in a firm voice.“Don’t pressure her, okay, kiddo?”
   “I know, I know. I was just looking forward to watching her have her first time,” DJ sighed. “Mine sucked. I wanted to see how beautiful it could be.”
   Staring off at nothing, Dawn murmured,“It WAS beautiful.” And then with a little smile, my girlfriend blinked a few times and then looked at me, coming to a realization of her own. “Ben, maybe you and Brooke should do this alone. Just the two of you. No pressure.”
   And then Dawn’s eyes swiveled to DJ before she added, “No gawking friends.”
   DJ pouted, but said nothing. Brooke latched onto the idea and looked at me with a world of pleading in her eyes. I just smiled and nodded.“Okay. Maybe we can arrange something in one of the cabins. Do this on a proper bed?”
   And then Brooke grabbed my arm.“Ben? Let’s not… let’s not plan this, okay? If I set a date or time I’ll freak out. Can we just let it happen? If it happens?”
   I looked at Dawn, who shrugged. And then I answered my sister,“Uh, sure.”
   “I mean, maybe while the four of us are together, I may decide I’m really ready and I won’t mind if you’re around,” Brooke said and looked at DJ, who smiled. Then she returned her shining eyes to me. “Or… maybe while we’re out and about somewhere, I’ll just grab you.”
   I gave her a wry smile.“You’ll have to be really careful about Mom and Dad then. They’re pretty liberal about sex but I don’t know if they’re THAT liberal. I’m pretty sure they’d have freaked if they caught me and Brandi at home.”
   Brooke chuckled.“I know.” And then she threw her arms around me, hugging me warmly and platonically. In the spirit of the moment, I tried to ignore that the pretty, naked 15-year-old had her boobs pressing against my skin. “Thanks Ben,” Brooke sighed.
   But then Brooke startled and yelped, picking her head up. I looked down to see that DJ had slid behind her best friend, cupping one of Brooke’s tits from behind while she leered at me. “Well, if Brooke doesn’t want to fuck right now, can I take her turn?”
   Suddenly, someone yanked on my shoulders and I found myself flat on my back with Dawn leaning over me, her face relatively upside-down.“I got a better idea. Why don’t we all triple-team him!” And then with that, my girlfriend shoved her big tits into my face.
   In revenge, I snaked my right hand over and slipped two fingers into her box, causing her to moan as I started manipulating my girlfriend’s pussy and suckling on the proffered teats.
   Laughing, DJ quickly had my cock in hand, stroking it urgently before lowering her mouth to me. And behind her, Brooke just grinned and looked on.
   I caught my sister’s attention with my eyes and beckoned her towards me, holding up my free hand even while I nursed at Dawn’s tits. And with a shrug and a smile, Brooke joined in.* * *
   “Laters, Ben.” Brooke kissed my cheek firmly and then dashed off after DJ, who hoisted her towel over her shoulder and was making a beeline for the lake.
   I smiled and waved after my little sister as she left, then more sedately finished putting on my running shoes. Dawn and I were going to join some of our other friends for Ultimate Frisbee that afternoon.
   “You two are certainly getting along well,” my mom smiled as she passed behind me, rearranging some of the mess our family had made in the past couple of weeks.
   I shrugged and turned to her.“Yeah, Brooke’s been pretty cool. Not as much of a brat anymore.”
   “Oh, your sister’s an angel. She’s never been a brat,” Mom insisted.
   I rolled my eyes, thinking of all her little evil blackmail schemes that had come to her as naturally as breathing.“Yeah, well, believe what you want, Mom. Either way, she’s growing up.”
   “She certainly is,” Mom sighed. “I see the way all the boys have started to look at her. Even some of the men.”
   I didn’t bother to respond verbally to that. But my mom stood at the window and looked off at Brooke, who was hopping down the trail with DJ while wearing nothing but her bikini and some flip-flops. My little sister’s tight ass was positively delectable in her skimpy bottoms.
   Mom’s voice seemed to descend from the heavens. “You don’t suppose she’s sexually active yet, do you Ben?”
   My eyes went wide as I panicked for a brief moment. She didn’t suspect anything, did she? “Uh, what?” I asked, truly bewildered that my mother would ask me such a question about my little sister.
   “You know I put her on the pill when she turned fifteen. Deanna Evans recommended it. She’s pretty sure DJ has started to have sex already, and that makes me worry about Brooke. I don’t know if she’s old enough or ready yet. You and Dawn at least waited until you were sixteen.”
   “Then why’d you put her on the pill at fifteen?” I arched my eyebrow. “Isn’t that giving her tacit permission?”
   “Maybe. I’m convinced a girl will start when she thinks she’s ready, whether she’s protected or not. I’d rather be sure not to have any premature grandchildren. So what do you think? Is she sexually active yet? That Perry boy seems nice, but we both know that all boys are constantly thinking about sex, Ben.”
   I coughed to cover my snort.“Uh, yeah, Mom. And… I’m not sure if she’s ready yet. But I do talk to her, and rest assured Mom, Brooke will think things through before she does anything rash. She’s a smart girl. She won’t let herself get hurt.”
   Mom smiled and then ran her fingers though my hair, something which annoyed me to no end.“Thank goodness for you, Ben. Such a good big brother. Keep talking to her. I know you’ll do what’s best for her.”
   And then Mom walked further into the cabin, stooping to pick up some towels the twins had carelessly let fall to the floor. I watched her for a second and then returned my gaze to Brooke and DJ, the two cute girls no doubt deep in conversation about all that had happened this morning. I sighed and then steeled my resolve. Whatever happened, whether Brooke and I had sex or not, I WOULD do what was best for her.* * *
   I was sitting well back from the bonfire, perched on a boulder up the hill. Twenty feet before me and to the left, I could see DJ and Brooke laughing with Eden and Emma as they roasted their marshmallows and put together their s’mores. It was a routine by now, the four of them working like a well-oiled machine to churn out perfect s’more after perfect s’more.
   Brooke was currently on handout duty, accepting the finished product and handing them off to the littlest kids who gratefully accepted the treats. Even a couple adults who hadn’t yet gotten sick of s’mores after two weeks of camp took a few. And of course, there were the teenaged guys who just wanted any excuse to flirt with the 15-year-old hotties.
   One such teenager, Andrew Hemingway, was even so bold as to whisper something into Brooke’s ear as he took a s’more, and then he leaned in and gave her a chaste peck on the cheek. Even with the firelight in her face, I could see Brooke blush as the boy turned away almost immediately and scooted back into the crowd as if his ass was on fire, and Brooke stared after him for a long few seconds before a cute 5-year-old girl showed up and asked for the s’more in Brooke’s hands.
   A rustle to my left shook me from my reverie of staring at Brooke and I turned to see Dawn climbing up onto the boulder beside me. There was a stump next to the rock, boosting her up and then she was suddenly beside me, our legs dangling off into thin air four feet above the ground. And in a quiet voice, she asked,“What are you thinking?”
   I reached out and accepted Dawn’s hand into mine, squeezing gently on it three times in our now-usual greeting to one another. I sighed and then nodded back towards the fire. “I’m wondering if I made the right decision.”
   Dawn followed my gaze.“What? Not having sex with Brooke this morning?”
   “No, no. I’msure that was the right decision. No I’m questioning whether I should be doing this in the first place. A girl’s virginity is pretty special to her, isn’t it?”
   Dawn squeezed my hand.“It was with me. Believe me, I had lots of opportunities to lose it when I was her age.” She then leaned in and nuzzled my cheek. “But then I thought of you, Ben. And I knew. We’re meant to be together.”
   I smiled and leaned in until our foreheads were touching.“Yeah…” But then I sighed. “That’s kind of what I mean. Is this the right thing for Brooke? Clearly, she and I aren’t meant to be together. And just now, Andrew Hemingway went up and shyly kissed her on the cheek.”
   “Andrew’s a nice guy,” Dawn nodded.
   “Exactly. Shouldn’t Brooke have the chance to find someone she really cares about?”
   “She does, Ben. You. Left to her own devices, who knows how it’ll turn out. Look at Dayna, seduced by a greasy football player in the back of a car. Or DJ’s pathetic excuse for a first boyfriend. Girls have hormones too, Ben. At some point, you just get tired of waiting for Mr. Right and think you’ve found Mr. Right Now. DJ said that Brooke told her that her boyfriend Perry even tried to rape her. You think that’s how Brooke wants to lose her cherry?”
   I sighed.“But I don’t love her like that. I mean, I love my sister, but not romantically. We have no future together.”
   “You’re too much of an idealist, Ben. You and me, we’re a one of a kind couple. Not everyone gets to grow up with their soulmate.” Dawn beamed at me and I felt the warm glow of her love wrap around me like a blanket while she physically wrapped herself around my arm. “Now you and Brooke not having a future doesn’t matter. You don’t have to be her last lover; but youcan be her first. She loves you. She trusts you. And I can’t think of anyone more perfect for her than you.”
   I sighed.“You’re just trying to build up my confidence about this, aren’t you?”
   Dawn shrugged.“You’re here to make this beautiful for Brooke, and you can’t do that if you’re second-guessing yourself while it happens. I’m your girlfriend; I put you at ease. It’s what I do.”
   I chuckled.“I don’t think most girlfriends ever try to get their boyfriends to have sex with their sisters.”
   Dawn squeezed my arm.“Like I said. We’re one of a kind.”* * *
   “Fuck me! Fuck me, Ben! Oh, lick me! Lick me, Brooke! Oh this is so fucking incredible! I never DREAMED I’d be fucking you both at the same time! Oh, shit! Oh, shit! I’m cumming!” DJ arched her back, wailing ecstatically. I was pounding the young blonde doggy-style. Her twin braids danced around with a life of their own. Her spine rippled, a shuddering that started up at the base of her neck and worked its way like an earthquake down her back, lower and lower until it reached her hips. And then I felt the tight pulsing squeezes of her pussy muscles clamping down on my cock.
   This was the third time during this particular fuck that DJ had lit off into orgasm, and the way her pussy gripped me always threatened to make me blow. This time, she actually did set me off. And while I bellowed in a deep voice, I felt my balls evacuating as I nutted my load deep inside the young teenager.
   Beneath DJ in the sixty-nine position, Brooke was eagerly lapping at her best friend’s clit, even though DJ was a little too distracted to return the favor. She’d also occasionally strayed to lick my balls, and if Brooke had ever done that while DJ’s pussy muscles were pulsing, I would have lost my load long ago.
   As it was, I was only now blasting away, deliriously happy that I was cumming into a tight pussy, when suddenly that tight pussy was gone. The abrupt sensation was enough to draw my attention back down, and I saw that while DJ’s cute ass was still pointing back at me, she was a few inches off course while Brooke had fisted my cock from underneath me and was now aiming my spurting cannon into her gaping mouth. And then my groans only picked up in pitch and volume as I emptied the rest of my spunk down my little sister’s throat.
   Brooke moaned and hummed happily while she drank down every drop of me, and even when I was done cumming, the horny young brunette couldn’t seem to get enough. Pushing my cock out of the way, she turned to where DJ had collapsed onto her side and fastened her mouth over her best friend’s shaved snatch, which had only begun to leak out the semen I’d deposited there.
   That also left Brooke’s naked body wide open and vulnerable before me. Her ass was pointed back at me, her wet and juicing pussy seeming to invite me inside. For three days, the four of us had been getting together for morning sex sessions. For three days, I’d looked into my sister’s eyes with growing lust and come away certain that she wasn’t ready yet. And so for three days I’d been suppressing my urges.
   Thankfully, Dawn and DJ were more than happy to relieve me of that pent-up lust.
   But the lust always came back. And so I eagerly dove onto Brooke’s body from the opposite direction, pulling her thighs apart and pushing my tongue into her virginal snatch. The effect was immediate. My sister squealed and moaned happily, and while she suckled out all my remaining cream from DJ’s pussy, I worked Brooke over until she gave me some cream of her own.
   Dawn wasn’t idle during this either. She’d been rubbing herself to orgasm beside us while I pounded DJ from behind. Presently, she took my deflating prick into her mouth to revive me for another go. And so the four of us were a chain of oral pleasure, Brooke eating out DJ, me eating out Brooke, and Dawnswallowing my cock.
   Soon, we all seemed ready to go again. Brooke flopped onto her back and gasped for air while DJ crawled away to curl into a little ball, hoping for some time to recover from her repeated orgasms. I scooted away from Dawn at the imagined invitation from Brooke, moving into a push-up position over my little sister and nudging my hard erection against her crotch. And when I bent my head to kiss my sister, she wrapped her arms around me and hummed happily, moaning into our liplock.
   Now was the time. Now I could finally be inside her. Now I would take her and make her a woman.
   But when my cockhead settled in between her spread labia, the passway wonderfully lubricated by an abundance of fluid, Brooke suddenly went rigid and her eyes popped open. Lust radiated from her eyes at me, and her mouth opened in a gasp as my cock pushed fractionally forward, meeting resistance along the way.
   And then Brooke’s eyes tightened as she felt the first pain of her maidenhead being stretched. But it wasn’t just pain. She was horny, and she wanted me, but she was stillscared. I could see it in her eyes. And with a wail of great sorrow I tore myself away from her before my body’s instincts did something I would later regret. There always might be a chance later. But if I did this prematurely, there wouldn’t be any going back. And for me to do that to my little sister just wasn’t an option.
   Brooke was quickly on her side, moaning a distraught,“I’m sorry, Ben.”
   But I’d already shut my eyes and moved to Dawn, who willingly spread her legs and pulled back on her own knees for me. ‘Don’t think, don’t think, don’t think. Just MOVE, ‘ I told myself. A second later I was inside of my girlfriend, feeling a wave of relief wash over me as I settled my forehead to the blanket beside her.
   I was breathing heavily and my heartbeat was still racing when Brooke moved alongside me and kissed my cheek.“I’m sorry, Ben.” Her voice was tinged with guilt.
   I shook my head and forced away any disappointment.“Don’t be sorry, Brooke. I’ll always love you. You’ve nothing to feel guilty about.”
   “But I’m such a tease,” she moaned.
   “No, you’re not teasing. You’re just not ready yet,” I insisted.
   “I’m not complaining,” Dawn grinned beside us. I turned my head to my girlfriend, giving her a soul-searching kiss of gratitude and love. And then concentrating on my feelings for the gorgeous young woman beneath me, I made love to Dawn.
   Everything was as it should be.* * *
   “Feel like going up to the ridge?” Dawn looked over at me with a hopeful smile on her face. “Should be a great sunset tonight.”
   I smiled and nodded. Dawn and I hadn’t been up to the romantic sunset view for about a week and I slipped my hand into hers. “Sure,” I replied. “Anywhere with you.”
   The two of us left the pool table where we’d been killing time and went outside. There, standing together just outside the lodge not twenty feet from us were some familiar faces. Brooke and DJ were chatting with Andrew Hemingway, who looked simultaneously thrilled to be talking to the pretty girls and also ready to shit his pants.
   It was a common enough sight. Ever since that bonfire when Andrew had first dared to kiss Brooke’s cheek, the 16-year-old boy had been following Brooke around like a lost puppy. Sure, he didn’t join us on our morning “hikes”. But in the afternoons, he was ever present as they all played around the lake, engaged in various camp activities, or even just suntanned and talked. I’d neverseen any more physical contact between the kid and my little sister, but it was clear that they both had an interest in each other.
   At this moment, Brooke had a bashful smile on her face while DJ just grinned mischievously. And as we watched, DJ gave her friend a not-so-subtle shove in the back, which caused Brooke to stumble forward so that Andrew caught her against his right side.
   Reflexively, Andrew cinched his arm around Brooke’s waist and looked down at her, while my sister looked up at the handsome but shy boy with a pleasant expression on her face.
   “They look cute together, don’t they,” I commented softly.
   Dawn glanced over and shrugged.“I suppose.” Presently, Brooke stood herself up straighter and glared at DJ. Andrew immediately retracted his arms as if he was about to get in trouble for daring to touch Brooke. And DJ just laughed off the whole scene.
   Dawn and I hadn’t stopped walking this entire time and we were soon carried beyond the group of younger teens. We said little to each other on the short hike up to the ridge. I was lost in my own thoughts and Dawn, seeming to sense my disquiet, didn’t intrude.
   I was thankful for that. There were times when I wanted to talk things out and there were times when I just wanted a little solitude. For years, Dawn always seemed to know when to do which, and now she gave me the best of both worlds by leaving me alone and yet also squeezing my hand to remind me she was there for me.
   Dawn and I were early enough that we got one of the best spots, a man-made wooden bench that provided comfortable seating for four. Two spots were already taken by an older couple but Dawn and I got the others.
   As the sun slowly descended out of the sky, I found my mind wandering into further ruminations on the nature of sex, love, and relationships. All three were interconnected and yet separate. You could easily have one or two of the three without the others. I’d had sex and a relationship without real love for Megan, at least at first. I’d also had sex with girls like Donna Kincaid without love OR a relationship.
   The ideal, of course, would be all three. I had it with Dawn, and my life was enriched so much the better because of it. Didn’t Brooke deserve the same? Yeah, Brandi and I had our short affair. We had the sex and I did love my sister. But a relationship just wasn’t possible.
   But just because it worked for Brandi didn’t mean it was right for Brooke. Brandi had been older and experienced and had gone off to college none the worse for wear because of what we’d done. I didn’t necessarily know if things would go so well with Brooke. This was hervirginity. Maybe I was overhyping the damn thing, but didn’t Brooke deserve her first experience to be with someone who could give her all three: sex, love, AND a relationship?
   As if on cue, Brooke ascended up onto the ridgeline. She saw us and smiled, and then a second later Andrew Hemingway followed after her. The boy clearly looked at Brooke adoringly, filled with all the passion and attentive focus of a teenager infatuated with a pretty girl. When Brooke looked around and moved towards a flat set of rocks often used as a seat, Andrew willingly trailed along.
   DJ came up next, grinning at Dawn and me while nodding her head back towards Brooke and her“date”. Dawn smiled as well and squeezed my hand. I suppose all girls feel little butterflies in their stomachs when they see another lovey-dovey couple, but all I could feel was bitterness.
   It was selfish, I know. I’d gotten blowjobs and eaten Brooke out and roved my lips and fingers all over her body. After days of being offered my little sister’s body I’d come to accept it as only a matter of time before Brooke worked up the nerve to go through with penetrative sex. My conscience was questioning our actions every step of the way, but my brain had determined it would happen sometime or another. And for some reason I felt like I would be cheated if, in the end, I didn’t get to bone my little sister. But I took a deep breath and flushed the evil thoughts from my mind. It was okay. I would be okaywith this.
   Brooke deserved to find love outside of her family. We’d shared some pleasure together, but she could take that final step with someone who actually could give her all three things she needed, including the relationship. And just when I looked over at the budding teenage couple, Andrew leaned in and gave Brooke another soft kiss on the cheek. The two were completely ignoring the setting sun.
   I sighed.“I’m happy for her,” I said softly.
   Dawn turned and looked at me intently for a moment.“You sure?”
   I glanced over again, where Brooke was smiling and watching her fingers intertwine in Andrew’s hands. She looked radiantly happy, in a romantic way that she could never look at me. I sighed. I’d come so close to making love to my little sister, but it was never going to happen. But I was okay with that. Sex was not a requirement in our relationship. I loved her. And I would always love her. She was my little sister.
   “Yeah. I am,” I finally said firmly, with no trace of jealousy. I smiled at my girlfriend, who smiled back and squeezed my hand, leaning against me and giving me a short peck on my shoulder.
   “Don’t worry Ben. We’ll sneak away and I’ll cheer you up tonight,” Dawn said encouragingly.
   I let a wider expression of happiness come to my face. The love of my life wanted to cheer me up, and that knowledge in and of itself did wonders for my spirits. I wrapped my arms around Dawn, looked off over the ridge, and together, we watched the last of the sun’s rays disappear over the horizon.* * *
   After the brief cold snap of a few nights before, the evening weather had returned to summer warmth and it was still quite comfortable even as the sky rapidly darkened. And once the sun was gone, the camp routine on the ridge began.
   Most of the people up there were romantic couples. Almost as soon as the sun was down, the middle-aged and older couples left to start their hike back before it got dark enough to make the trek dangerous. But the younger couples almost always stuck around and quietly got into their makeout sessions.
   To our left, a few twenty-somethings were trying to inhale each other’s tongues. To the right, some older teens were necking slowly. I didn’t want to look over at Brooke and Andrew. So I turned and started kissing Dawn with sweet, tender passion.
   But then Dawn pulled away abruptly and we both looked up to see DJ staring down at us.“What’s up? Feeling left out?” Dawn asked her little sister.
   DJ shrugged.“Actually, I’m supposed to walk back down with you.”
   I felt a bit of my good mood sinking. Brooke and Andrew were looking to be left alone to make out, so DJ was stuck being a third wheel and was going to tag along with me and Dawn as we returned to camp. I wanted to be happy for my sister hooking up with Andrew, but I still couldn’t shake the mild disappointment inside of me. “Yeah, we’ll go with you.”
   “Actually,” DJ interrupted in a quiet voice. “Brooke wants to talk to Ben. She’s telling Andrew that right now.” We all turned to see Andrew nodding his head slowly while Brooke made some hand motions with an apologetic look on her face. To his credit, Andrew didn’t look disappointed. He kissed Brooke’s cheek and then came over to us.
   DJ gave Andrew a tight smile, Dawn squeezed my hand one more time, and then the three of them headed for the trailhead. I think Andrew was just as amazed to be hiking back with Dawn and DJ as he was hanging out with Brooke.
   The twenty-something couple got up then, giggling all the while. And hand-in-hand they hurried for the trailhead themselves, no doubt eager to find somewhere more private to get naked with each other. Meanwhile, Brooke stood up and came over to join me on the bench. I sighed and readied myself for her apologies.
   “Hi, Ben,” Brooke began.
   “Hey,” I put a smile on my face. “Andrew seems like a nice guy.”
   “Oh, he IS. He’s so sweet and considerate and bashful. But then he’s confident enough to move in and kiss my cheek, willing to take that chance. And he’s really smart.”
   My smile was all thin lips.“That’s good, that’s good.”
   Brooke took a deep breath.“Andrew wants to go for a hike with me tomorrow morning, Ben.”
   My eyebrows went up. Clearly, that meant that she wouldn’t be joining Dawn, DJ, and I for our usual morning sex romp. I couldn’t help but imagine that Brooke was planning a similar activity with Andrew. And so the big brother alarm went off in the back of my head. “Alone? Uh, Brooke. Isn’t that moving a little fast? How well do you know this guy?”
   She recognized the abrupt shift in my tone and looked at me funny before giggling as she realized my implications.“No, Ben! He hasn’t even KISSED me yet. We’re not going to do anything naughty. He really just wants to hike and talk and get to know me.”
   Relieved, I smiled.“Oh, okay. But… it’s still… a date, isn’t it?”
   Brooke blushed, and even in the dimming red light I could see the flush on her face.“Yeah, I guess. I just want to get to know him a little better, too.”
   “That’s good, that’s good,” I nodded, my tone not quite matching my words.
   Brooke looked at me a little funny.“You’re not jealous, are you, Ben?”
   “What? Jealous of my sister?” I said a little too loud. I turned my head to see the older teenage couple still necking not too far away from us. And in a quieter voice, I hissed, “No.”
   Brooke looked at me a little more intently, reading my eyes.“You ARE.”
   I shut up and looked away, breathing steadily and making every effort to flush away my negative emotions. At the same time, the teenage couple must have decided they weren’t going to get any privacy up here, and the two of them got up to find greener pastures. I stayed silent and Brooke waited me out until they left, leaving the two of us alone on the darkening ridge.
   “Why are you jealous?” Brooke looked at me funny. “I’m not your girlfriend, Ben. You’ve GOT a girlfriend, a loving girlfriend who’s gorgeous and who adores you. Everyone knows you and Dawn are meant to be together.”
   I sighed.“I can’t help it. I warned you, sex changes things between people. Even though I know I’m not yours and you’re not mine, I still feel… I still feel like you ARE mine.”
   “So if DJ stopped joining you guys and found her own boyfriend, you’d be just as jealous?” Brooke asked quietly.
   I furrowed my brow and then frowned.“Uh, actually, no. Don’t get me wrong, DJ is really hot and cute, but… it’s just sex. She’s my friend and all, but we don’t have feelings for each other. But you… you’re my sister.”
   “Were you jealous of Brandi when she left and went to meet up with what’s-his-name at college? Brian?”
   I shrugged.“No. I always knew she would leave for college and she was always planning on exploring her relationship with Brian.”
   “Then how is this any different?” Brooke looked at me with a worried pout. “The last thing I want to do is hurt you, Ben. I thought you’d be okay with this Andrew thing. But if you’re not alright with it I won’t go anywhere with him.”
   “No, no,” I said quickly. “I don’t want to hold you back. You deserve every chance to be happy and find a real relationship.”
   Brooke shrugged.“He lives in Oregon. I’m in SoCal. A real relationship would be kind of hard in about two weeks.”
   “Whatever. A summer fling. And you’ll see him next year. Meeting boys is part of growing up, Brooke. I couldn’t stand it if I was the one holding you back from getting these experiences.”
   “Then what is it?” My little sister gave me an odd look. “Andrew doesn’t change anything a thing about us.”
   I sighed and looked down.“It’s just… I’d miss being with you, Brooke. We’ve gotten a lot closer this summer.” My eyebrows popped wide open at my massive understatement. Who’d have ever thought I’d have my little sister swallowing my cum down her throat. “A LOT closer.”
   Brooke blushed again and she shivered despite the lack of any coldness.
   I exhaled.“And I guess I’d gotten used to the idea of making love with you, of teaching you and showing you how wonderful sex can be. Now it’s not gonna happen.”
   Alarm crossed Brooke’s face. “What? Why not?” She looked seriously panicked that I’d reneged on my promise to her.
   I blinked rapidly, thoroughly confused.“Huh? Well… because you’re going to be going with Andrew now, right? A guy who’s not your brother with whom you can really develop a relationship. And maybe, just maybe, he’ll be the type of guy you can lose your virginity with.”
   “WHAT?” Brooke gave me a confused look, complete with pinched eyebrows and bewildered expression. “Ben, what did I say about fumbling around with teenagers who didn’t know what the hell they were doing? You think I want to pop my cherry like DJ did? Andrew’s nice but NO. HELL NO! I want YOU. I still want YOU.”
   Now it was my turn to look bewildered.
   Realization dawned on Brooke’s face. “Is THAT why you’ve been all weird about this Andrew thing? Because you think I’m going to back out of having sex with you?”
   “Uh…” I stammered. “Well, weren’t you?”
   Brooke giggled.“No!” And then she quickly turned around and hopped into my lap, facing me with her feet dangling off the bench behind me. “Silly brother.” And then Brooke planted a wet, fierce, passionate kiss on my lips.
   Her kiss struck me with such force that my body locked up, my feet pressing into the ground while my back went rigid. Brooke just took the opportunity to further wrap herself around me, crossing her legs behind my lower back and clutching my shoulders even more tightly as she crammed her tongue down my throat.
   I groaned into her kiss, feeling relief wash over me as I once again intimately held Brooke in my arms. She moaned erotically against my mouth, and at the sound of her arousal, I felt my cock stiffening inside my shorts.
   Brooke felt it too, and she began to grind herself against the bulge, shifting around impatiently for a bit before she managed to locate her clit over my hardness, and then she had to pull her mouth away from mine in order to pant breathlessly while humping herself against my cock.
   “Ohhh, Ben. I love you, big brother.”
   “I love you, too, little sister,” I grunted and moved my lips down her neck. She was wearing a light tank-top, and moving up one hand I pulled the strap over her shoulder so that I had an unimpeded path to nibble my way along her neckline. Brooke sighed and clutched my head to the crook of her neck, moaning happily.
   Almost as suddenly as she’d kissed me, Brooke suddenly stopped her hip gyrations and pulled her legs back as if to get off of me. I whimpered in disappointment, feeling for the umpteenth time that her nerves were getting the best of her as she got scared of going any further. But then her husky voice was in my ear as Brooke stood on the ground and started tugging at her shorts. “I want it, Ben. I want it now!”
   “Wha—?” I looked up in surprise. Brooke dropped her shorts and panties onto the ground, hurriedly trying to pull her sneaker-clad feet through the holes.
   “Now, Ben! Now!”
   “Here?” My eyes popped open wide. Even though the light had gone nearly dark, we were still in twilight and however unlikely, should anyone decide to come up onto the ridge, they would certainly see brother and sister in a very compromising position.
   “Now, Ben! I NEED you!” Brooke’s shorts were a distant memory. For my shorts, she’d already gotten my fly undone and pulled the flap as wide open as it could go. I still had my shorts and boxers as protection against the scratchy wood of the bench, but now she was able to extract my cock through the gap in my boxers and elevate it into a vertical position.
   “Oh, Brooke!” I exclaimed. But before I could even get out the words ‘Are you sure?’ my little sister stepped over the bench with her feet on either side behind me, aimed my rod, and impaled her tight pussy over my mushroom head.
   “AAAAAHHHH!” she screamed as she felt what remained of her maidenhead rip away. All I could do was hold my little sister in my arms as firmly as possible, and the first tears rolled down her cheeks as she blinked away the pain. “Ah, shit that HURT!”
   “I’m so sorry, baby,” I murmured in apology. But Brooke would have none of it. Without bothering to wipe away her tears, she grabbed my head and kissed me, and then hunched with her hips to sink an extra few inches into her exquisitely tight pussy.
   I’d thought 15-year-old DJ was tight. Well Brooke was a month younger, a couple inches shorter, and quite a bit thinner than her best friend. And at first it felt like her vaginal tunnel was peeling the skin off my dick. Brooke herself was gritting her teeth at the stretching sensation, and I wentinto protective mode and immediately sought a way to ease my sister’s pain.
   I kissed her. I kissed her lips and her jaw and her neck. I rubbed her shoulders and stroked her back and rubbed her tits against my chest, even though our shirts were still between us. And I told her I loved her. Over and over again, I told Brooke,“I love you, baby. I love you, sis. I’ll always love you.”
   Brooke had stopped breathing for a few seconds, but now as she exhaled and whimpered, she started to get used to the sensation and began kissing me back.“Mmmph! I love you, Ben… Mmmph! I love you, big brother…”
   Those first kisses were urgent and firm, but as the seconds ticked by Brooke was able to breathe a little easier and kiss me with longer, more drawn out passion. Without even thinking about it, she slipped down another inch, moaning at the feeling, and I felt more and more of her natural lubrication flooding into our joining.
   “You’re in me, Ben,” Brooke sighed once she seemed to have fully recovered from the initial deflowering. “I can’t believe you’re actually in me.”
   “Believe it, baby,” I said reassuringly. “My little girl is a woman now.”
   Brooke beamed at me, wrapping my head up in her arms and kissing me again. She hunched her hips and sank another few inches. And with repeated lunges and hip thrusts of my own, my little sister eventually hit bottom as her ass stopped against my thighs. She’d taken my entire dick inside her tight little pussy.
   Upon accomplishing that goal, Brooke took a breather and rested her cheek on my shoulder. Neither of us moved, both of us just recovering from the incredible rush of first coupling as we adjusted to the new sensations. The longer we stayed like that, the more she loosened up. And as I slipped my hand beneath her tank top and started stroking her back, this cute young brunette began to sigh happily and really enjoy the pleasant feelings.
   “I feel so full…” she groaned.
   “I know,” I smiled and rubbed her lower back. I then exhaled and looked at the back of her head, as she was looking off my shoulder. “Why now, Brooke?”
   She was quiet for a few seconds, but from her quiet calm I knew she’d heard me. And then picking her head up, she turned her soft brown eyes over to me and smiled. “Because I knew I wanted it to be you. I had to be you. Every time the four of us got together, I would get so horny and so aroused and I sooo wanted to do it with you. Those little… orgies… we had every morning were perfectly designed for me to get in the mood and lose my virginity. But when the moment came, I would get scared and overthink it and I kept chickening out.”
   “What changed?”
   She shook her head slowly.“I don’t know. A lot of little things. This Andrew situation for one. I never thought it would have this effect on you. I always had the ‘Ben’ issue completely separate from the ‘Andrew’ issue. I wanted to explore sex and losing my virginity with you, and have my summer flirtation with Andrew too, without worrying about all that sex stuff with him.”
   “Good plan,” I nodded and nuzzled her cheek with my nose.
   “But it never occurred to me that you’d see a conflict,” Brooke continued. “And then you said that you might never have sex with me, and all of a sudden, I just didn’t want to put it off any longer. Why wait? I knew I wouldn’t regret it. I knew I would be forever happy that my big brother, whom I love so much, got my cherry and introduced me to the world of sex. I just had to stop overthinking it and just go for it. So I did. And I don’t regret a thing.”
   I chuckled.“Well, we haven’t even really gotten started yet.” I flexed my cock inside her, causing the devirginized teenager to giggle as she felt my vibrations.
   “It’s okay. I already know it’ll be great. It already IS great. I feel so wonderful right now, just knowing you’reinside me. I love you, Ben.”
   I leaned in and softly kissed her.“I love you, too.” And then with my hands subtly, but firmly, holding my sister’s hips, I ground her body against me and simultaneously thrust upwards, confident my pelvic bone would come up underneath her clit. The effect was immediate. Brooke moaned loudly and threw her head back, shuddering at the sensations.
   “Holy shit!” she gasped, sounding a bit like DJ. “Do that again!”
   I grinned.“Like that? You’ll LOVE this.”* * *
   Fucking on a hard, uneven bench on a rocky ridge in the woods isn’t the most romantic way of losing your virginity. But Brooke didn’t seem to mind. At first, I tried showing her how she could control the depth while riding on top of me, but my little sister barked, “Teach later. Fuck NOW!”
   So we fucked and fucked to an aria of“Unngh!” “Ohhh!” and “Yesss!” If anyone was just down the hill from us, they would be getting an earful. And even when Brooke couldn’t form coherent words, her whimpering moans filled the empty air.
   Eventually, I came deep inside my little sister. She was in the throes of what I think was her third orgasm, her legs and arms clutching me so tightly that I thought we’d fall off the bench. But when she felt the hot jets of cum splashing against her insides, Brooke threw her head back and gave me just enough leverage to get us upright once again.
   The horny 15-year-old was in a damn hurry to start fucking again after that, dismounting me and letting my cum dribble out of her onto the ground without a care in the world. She pushed me flat on my back across the bench and hovered over my crotch, inhaling my prick and sucking me with an enthusiasm I’d never seen from her before.
   Once she got me hard again, Brooke spread her sneakers out wide and bent at the waist, bracing her hands on the bench in an open invitation for me to take her from behind. I was quite obliging, ramming my little sister’s tight pussy while gripping the firm globes of her ass.
   Her shrieks of“Fuck me! Fuck me! Fuck me!” had me worried enough that someone might hear us. But then she started howling, “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck your slutty little sister! Pound my cunt!”
   I freaked out that we might be overheard and leaned forward, clapping a hand over her mouth while she continued her muffled shrieking and I felt wet tears splashing my hand as she was so overwhelmed by the sensations coursing through her body.
   Brooke calmed down somewhat after she climaxed again. I took my shirt off then and put it on the edge of the bench as a cushion. Then I turned Brooke around and lay her on her back across the bench, her ass on my shirt as I spread her legs and re-entered her sodden snatch. She reached behind her head to grip the bench for balance and immediately started moaning ecstatically once again.
   Brooke wrapped her legs behind my thrusting hips as I pumped in and out of her. I could feel her thighs squeezing and could see her arms flexing as she humped her light body against me with every stroke. She put every ounce of energy she had into fucking back at me, and finally after climaxing one more time, my little sister started to run out of steam. She stopped screaming obscenities and instead just whimpered softly, the tears still rolling down her eyes as she cried in a weak voice,“Fuck me, Ben. I love you.”
   “I love you too, baby,” I said softly before bending down to kiss her. And when she let go of the bench and wrapped her arms around my head again, I thrust forward just a few more times before letting myself go, pouring out a second batch of creamy jism into my little sister’s no-longer virginal pussy.
   And with my cock still buried inside her, I collapsed onto my sister’s chest, gasping for oxygen. Her chest rising and falling with her own heavy breathing, Brooke stroked my hair lovingly while she moaned and sighed happily in her first post-coital afterglow.
   “Wow,” a voice sounded off behind me, momentarily startling the both of us before DJ stepped forward in the dimness and made both Brooke and I exhale in relief.
   The young blonde teen just hugged herself while a flashlight dangled from a strap around her wrist. DJ looked at the two of us with a really big smile on her face and sighed happily,“That really WAS beautiful.”
   Chapter 20: TransitionJULY 2001, SUMMER CAMP
   “Unnnghhh! Eat me! Eat me!” Dawn whimpered, arching her back while her entire lower torso shuddered. She tossed her head side to side, sending waves of fine blonde hair flying in every direction. Her eyelids closed to mere slits, letting a penetrating blue stare only peek out while her mouth contorted in ecstasy. I watched her ab muscles rolling and contracting as her orgasm swept through her body. And letting her hands free of her own prodigious breasts, she reached down and clamped her hands onto DJ’s tits, squeezing them roughly as she knelt astride her little sister’s face.
   DJ herself was writhing and bucking. Her upper body was immobilized by Dawn’s weight, but her hips were thrusting upwards into Brooke’s face, my little sister gripping her best friend’s thighs in a futile attempt to keep her target still. But despite DJ’s thrashing, Brooke was able to keep her tongue and lips in place as she furiously tongued DJ to an earth-shattering climax of her own.
   And all the while, I drilled my little sister from behind, my hands gripping her hips and pulling her light body back to meet each thrust as I sawed my thick dick in and out of her tight snatch. My unyielding rod battered apart her delicate pussy lips, repeatedly penetrating and then exiting her narrow channel as she squirmed and wriggled in response to the intense sensations.
   When Brooke finally tripped into her orgasm, I felt the tremors inside her pussy as she squeezed and vibrated, her whole body trembling as she picked her head up and moaned ecstatically as her mind was overwhelmed with pure bliss. Those internal spasms were all that was needed to finish me off, and at the last second I decided to pull out and hose down Brooke’s perky buttcheeks, my creamy white jism a nice contrast to her tanned skin as I left glob after stringy glob all over the 15-year-old’s perfect hemispheres. And when her arms gave out and she collapsed forward onto her belly, the excess jizz drizzled away from me down her asscheeks to pool inmy little sister’s lower back.
   Dawn was the first to moved around and stick her tongue into that ivory puddle of man-goo. DJ, even more of a cumslut than her sister, was quickly on the other side of Brooke’s prone body as she too sought to lick up everything within reach. And as always, the sight of the beautiful blonde sisters so eagerly going after my spunk was exciting enough to keep me in a state of near-permanent hardness.
   DJ soon left the remaining cleanup of Brooke to Dawn and moved over to me, taking my half-hard cock into her mouth and using her newly acquired expertise to bring me back to full mast. I patted the young teen’s blonde head appreciatively as I caught my breath and readied myself for the next round.
   At that point, Dawn rolled onto her back and pulled her knees up to her chest with her thighs spread to the sides, lewdly exposing her pussy to view.“Take me to heaven, honey?”
   “Ooh, me too!” DJ popped off my erection and went immediately beside her sister, rolling onto her back and adopting an identical position.
   Looking back and forth between the two sisters’ naked bodies and shaved snatches, I felt like a drunk trying to decide between two identical pitchers of beer. So pragmatically I offered. “Looks like I have to fuck you both at the same time.”
   “Better enjoy this while you can, Ben,” Dawn giggled. “Our periods start tomorrow,” she reminded me.
   I nodded.“Don’t worry. I’ll fuck you both hard enough you’ll still remember it in a week.”* * *
   “Ben, can you take us up to the Garden of Me this afternoon?” Eden opened her eyes WIDE in what she knew was a surefire way to get me to say ‘yes’. I couldn’t help it. My baby sister really did have puppy-dog eyes. In a baby-cute voice, she explained, “Brooke was supposed to do it todaybut she’s going somewhere with Annndrew… Againnn.”
   I chuckled at how Eden had intercepted me as I left the bathroom.“Sure. Lemme ask Dawn if she’ll come.”
   “Okay!” Eden bounced away happily, moving quickly to Emma and the twins’ friends Jenny Wong and Ana Ramirez. The girls huddled together and quickly planned their afternoon, chattering rapid-fire like chipmunks.
   I smiled and headed back towards the lodge lounge, where I’d already arranged to meet up with Dawn after my bathroom break. On the way, I saw Brooke shyly slipping her hand into Andrew Hemingway’s. This was the third afternoon in a row they were spending alone together.
   Andrew saw me and waved. He’d been really formal and polite with me, recognizing that my sister and I were very close and that he wanted to be on my good side. Brooke caught his wave and turned to see me, blushing and smiling sweetly.
   I looked at the happy expression on my sister’s face, completely serene and without tension, bitchiness, or any sign of her evil tendencies. The improvement in her attitude couldn’t have just been her budding romance. She’d been dating Perry and still been a little brat at home. Maybe it was because she was getting properly laid. After all, I knew how relaxing a good orgasm could be and this way, Brooke could focus on getting to know Andrew without awkward sexual tension. Hmm, I very much liked the new and improved Brooke. Maybe I should have started banging her much earlier.
   Anyways, I waved the young couple along and turned inside. Dawn was by the pool table, hoisting a stick and tossing the cue ball in her left hand.“Feel like losing another couple bucks?”
   I groaned. Dawn was an expert pool shark (something about Newtonian physics), and I’d already lost more than $20 to her this summer. Then again, I was sure I could pay her back with sexual favors.
   I shook my head in the negative.“The twins are asking me to chaperone them up to the Garden. Feel like a good hike?”
   “What, like we need more exercise?” Dawn rolled her eyes and grinned. But then she added, “Sure, just let me change into better shoes.”
   My girlfriend then leaned her head back and elevated her arms into the air, stretching her lithe body out, which thrust her D-cups forward to strain the fabric of her halter top. Gary Wong promptly scratched over at the next pool table, missing the cue ball completely and smacking the eight-ball directly into the side pocket.
   Unawares, Dawn turned her head to the collective groan of the guys at the next pool table.“What happened?”
   I chuckled and slipped my arm around her waist.“I’ll tell you later. C’mon, let’s get moving before Emma starts whining.”* * *
   “Hurry uh-uup, Ben!” Emma whined, stretching the word ‘up’ into two syllables. Her fists perched on her hips as she stood atop a boulder further up the trail. As the baby of the family, she was used to pouting and always getting her way. Our parents doted on the twins, spoiling them incessantly; but they were outgrowing their cuteness.
   “I’m going to remind you of this when you guys are lagging behind us on the way home,” I called ahead. Dawn and I were taking our time, just enjoying our physical proximity to each other and occasionally commenting on the things around us.
   I was still amazed at our relationship. Even though I was currently having sex with three girls, there was never any doubt who was the one romantic love in my life. DJ and Brooke deferred to Dawn at all times, and what they said was true: Everyone in the entire camp pretty much assumed Dawn and I would end up married, even people whoweren’t related to us.
   If marriage was anything like this summer had been, I would be the happiest man on Earth. Except for sleeping and the occasional toilet break, Dawn and I had spent every single moment of every day together since arriving at camp. That’s pretty much sixteen hours a day. If you consider that I averaged less than two hours a day of quality time together with any of my previous girlfriends, I felt like the past two and a half weeks had been more like five months straight. And in that entire time, I couldn’t remember a single fight. We were perfect together.
   Which was why I was now starting to freak out. After all, in another week and a half, we would be separated once again.
   Sure, we were used to spending eleven months apart; and after the past summer, we’d realized we were falling in love with each other and still endured the time away. But that waslast summer. This time, I felt in my core being that Dawn was my soulmate and I couldn’t imagine even one more day without her. How would I live without her by my side?
   “My mom says we’re all getting new cell phones when we get back,” Dawn tried to reassure me. “There’s this family plan and Cingular has this Mobile-to-Mobile thing where the calls to another Cingular phone are free. Convince your parents to get you one and we can talk all the time. Heck, I can put you on speakerphone and listen to you sleep.”
   I scrunched up my forehead as I kicked a pebble in front of me.“I guess. Don’t get me wrong, talking on the phone with you is far better than nothing. But…” I sighed. “I’ve never been a phone person, Dawn. You know that. I mean, I’ve kinda always been out of sight, out of mind. I don’t know how to carry on a conversation without seeing someone’s face and getting that… feedback.”
   “You’ll figure it out,” she said firmly. “For ME, you’ll figure it out.”
   I smiled at that.“Of course I will,” I said with confidence. For Dawn, I could do anything.
   “Besides,” Dawn said. “One thing at a time. First you have to get used to not having sex with me anymore.”
   “What?” I stopped dead in my tracks. “Why?”
   “Period. Remember? I mean, maybe we can still do it, but it’s gonna get messy and cleaning up blood out in the woods doesn’t sound like fun.”
   “Oh right, right.” Bashfully, I looked in earnest at my girlfriend. “But we can still do other stuff, right?”
   Dawn giggled,“Of course.” She looked up the trail. And with a naughty grin she purred, “Should I drop to my knees right now?”
   Uncontrollably, I groaned. But my eyes flicked up the trail to where Emma was once again glaring at us to hurry up.“Fucking tease,” I growled.
   Dawn just laughed and looped her arm through mine. And then we hurried to catch up to the little ones.* * *
   Dawn DID give me a quick blowjob when we snuck away for a couple of minutes. The girls, of course, noticed. And Dawn and I had a momentary panic attack when Ana tapped her chin and told Dawn,“You’ve got a bit of spit or something right here.”
   Dawn blushed and wiped away the glob of semen. Then she quickly jumped into the pool and rinsed her face off to make sure there were no further remains. After that, we horsed around with the younger ones, even getting into a few chicken fights where Dawn and I were the bases while the four 11-year-olds took turns perching on our shoulders and trying to wrestle each other off.
   We napped and relaxed in the shade. Dawn was sitting up and chatting with the girls while I dozed with my head in her lap. The valley between her thighs made a wonderful pillow and I couldn’t help but give her a few winks, knowing that I was just inches away from a very naughty place. Dawn had to slap my cheek when I made a move to kiss her down there, right in front of the young ones.
   After that, we had to sneak away into the bushes to have a full quickie, possibly our last vaginal intercourse for the next week. This time, Dawn made damn sure there weren’t any stray globs of semen anywhere visible when we were done. Awkward questions would NOT be fun.
   There was also one moment that justified our presence as chaperones. The girls were all jumping off a 10-foot ledge into the pool, doing cannonballs or otherwise just trying to make big splashes. At one point, Jenny Wong slipped while climbing up the rocks and opened a nasty set of cuts along her knee. I was quickly on the scene with the first aid kit to disinfect it and put on some bandages. After that, no one was in the mood to keep jumping and we packed up and headed home.* * *
   “Ready to go?” I hoisted my backpack and looked back at the cabin door, where Brooke was coming out with her own backpack, the buckle that connected the two shoulder straps still loose.
   Brooke nodded, but I saw the loose buckle and smiling, I stepped forward and grabbed the two halves, snapping them together just above her breasts. And as I pulled my hands away, without really thinking I let my fingertips trail down her slopes before pulling away.
   Brooke blushed and looked up at me.“Getting a little too close to the goods there, aren’t you?”
   “I intend to get a lot closer than that, sis,” I said in a husky voice, my eyes communicating my lust.
   She grinned with a twinkle in her eye. For the past two days, with the Evans sisters out of commission on their periods, Brooke and I had been the primary sexual couple. Sure, Dawn and DJ played around with us, and DJ even started to show some signs of Dayna’s affinity for anal play. But Brooke had certainly been enjoying the increased attention I was paying her.
   Hooking my thumbs into my own shoulder straps, I turned and we made the short walk to the Evans cabin. Dawn and DJ had yet to emerge, and I checked my watch to verify the time.
   When the Evans sisters were five minutes late, I started to get impatient. Dawn was usually like clockwork in her punctuality, a trait I found rare in the girls I knew and just one of the many things that made me love Dawn that much more. Fortunately, my girlfriend came out just then, clearly not dressed for a hike.
   “What’s wrong?” I asked as Dawn stepped out still wearing her pajamas and we exchanged quick hugs and a chaste kiss. “I’m feeling miserable. We both are.” Dawn looked back in the door, where DJ was sitting on a couch looking a little green. “Today’s probably my heaviest flow day andI just feel drained. We’re not really in the mood.”
   “Oh, okay,” I shrugged. As much as I would like to think my girlfriend was an energizer bunny in the sack, the truth was we occasionally went through times where we just weren’t that horny. Or, well, at least she wasn’t. I was pretty much horny at all times. But even pre-DJ and Brooke, Dawnand I had a perfectly normal day where we had zero sex. And her lack of interest on this day was especially understandable given her current female bodily functions.
   “We’re just going to hang out here, okay?” Dawn sighed.
   “Sure thing,” I nodded, immediately unclipping the buckle between my shoulder straps and the one around my waist, moving to drop my pack. “Maybe just hang out at the lounge? Play some pool?”
   “Oh no, no,” Dawn smiled serenely and then glanced over at Brooke. “Why don’t the two of you still go? You can’t ruin the morning’s fun just because of us.”
   I looked over and Brooke’s eyes went up in hopeful anticipation. Apart from that first time on the ridge, we’d never had sex alone.
   But the magnetic pull of my love for Dawn drew me back.“But, I want to be with you,” I whined.
   “You will be,” Dawn said warmly. “I’ll see you at lunch. Some time alone with your sister will be good for both of you and besides, we’re going to have to get used to being apart.”
   I frowned unhappily.“I don’t want to get used to being apart.” In the back of my head, I couldn’t believe I was arguing against this. Was I really turning down an opportunity for sex in favor of… billiards and ping-pong? But then I looked in Dawn’s eyes and I knew. I LOVED her. Of COURSE I wanted to be with her for every minute possible before we were separated.
   Dawn’s expression softened. “Ben, of course I’m not going to force you to be away from me. But seriously, it’s a good opportunity to hang out with Brooke. And it’s a good time for me to hang out with DJ. Just for one morning.”
   I sighed and nodded.“Okay, okay.” I leaned in and planted a juicy kiss on my girlfriend. And when I pulled away I murmured forlornly, “See you at lunch.”* * *
   Brooke and I hit the trail and just as we got started, I turned to her and said,“Don’t take it personally. I don’t MIND being out here with you.”
   My little sister just smiled and said,“Don’t worry about it. You love your girlfriend, I get it.”
   “I just don’t want you to feel like I’m… settling… for second best or anything. Dawn’s right. You and I haven’t spent any significant time alone together since… well… ever.”
   Brooke giggled and slipped her hand into mine.“Yeah. Well once we get back home, we’ll have a lot more time alone.”
   Her comment started my brain churning. While I’d been constantly thinking about my impending separation from Dawn, I hadn’t given serious thought to what would happen between me and Brooke once we returned to Orange County and the real world. In a contemplative voice, I mused, “So… when we get back, you’re still planning to have sex with me?”
   “Of course!” Brooke grinned and squeezed my hand. “You think I’m giving up these amazing orgasms just because camp is over? You and Brandi managed to pull it off. And while it may not be every morning, I plan to have you thoroughly screw my brains out as often as possible!”
   My little sister’s enthusiasm brought a smile to my face and a little rise in my shorts. The prospect of having a live-in, tight-body nymphomaniac in the next room seemed very convenient and exceedingly pleasurable. But the big brother concern in me overrode my initial lust. I bit my lip and cautioned, “Brooke, you know we can’t do this forever.”
   “Who said anything about forever?” She shrugged. “You’re graduating and leaving for college after next year. We have that long at least.”
   “But Brooke, you know you should be getting out and meeting other boys.”
   “I will, I will. I’m still hanging out with Andrew Hemingway right now, aren’t I? If he’s lucky, he’s even going to get to second base pretty soon.”
   I coughed nervously, washing the image out of my head.“Yeah, don’t tell me about that, please. I don’t want to hear about your sex life.”
   “Really?”
   “Yeah. I mean, if you’d just told me that Andrew stuck his finger inside you I’d turn around, go back to camp, and beat the living shit out of him. Sorry. Big brother instincts.”
   Brooke giggled.“Okay, if he does, I won’t tell.”
   I rolled my eyes.“Whatever. But seriously, Brooke. I DO want to know that you’re going out and exploring that. Dating and boys are a big part of growing up and learning to socialize like an adult. I’m just afraid that if you’re getting all your sexual needs taken care of at home, you won’t have the drive to go find yourself a real boyfriend.”
   “Look at it this way, Ben,” Brooke smiled sweetly at me. “If I’m getting all my sexual needs taken care of at home, I can meet and flirt with boys WITHOUT getting so horny I let them take advantage of me. So I can get all that social practice and flirting fun without taking any risks. Doesn’t THAT appeal to your protective big brother instincts?”
   I smiled.“Actually, yeah, it does. But you might get labeled as a tease if you push them too far.”
   “Better a tease than a slut.”
   I smiled.“True.”
   “And THIS way,” Brooke stopped me and pulled me around so that we were looking right at each other. She reached her arms up around my neck and smiled with obvious lust in her eyes. “If YOU’RE getting all your sexual needs taken care of at home, then maybe, just maybe, we’ll figure out a way to keep you from doing anything to ruin what you’ve got going with Dawn.”
   I leaned my head away from her. Feeling hurt, I exclaimed,“What?”
   Brooke put on her evil grin.“C’mon, Ben. We both know you don’t have the greatest record of being a loyal boyfriend. I talked to Dawn already. She’s hoping I can keep you on a leash. I’ll be watching and reporting back to her.”
   I rolled my eyes and sarcastically moaned,“Great…”
   Brooke giggled and leaned up to kiss me. She felt really good, and when she pulled away, she stayed with her mouth just half an inch away from mine.“C’mon, Ben. Don’t moan about it. Because I plan to keep you well satisfied.”* * *
   That morning, Brooke showed me that even without Dawn and DJ there to help, my little sister was certainly capable of fulfilling my sexual needs. She wasn’t experienced or skilled just yet, but she had an exquisitely tight pussy and an abundance of energy.
   For my pleasure, Brooke showed off her rapidly improving blowjob techniques, working me over to a quick climax and swallowing every drop down her gullet. Then, she let me pin her to the blanket and pound her with extreme brute force. The cute brunette was quite flexible and she split her legs to the sides in a big V, with her feet pointing back past her head while I held her tight ass in my hands and reamed her out at maximum depth.
   My thrusts were accompanied by her gasping moans. My mind was sent into pleasure orbit as she husked,“Fuck me, Ben. Fuck me, big brother! Nngh! Harder! HARDER! Pound my little pussy!”
   Finally, I spurted my incestuous load into my little sister, creaming her spasming snatch until it overflowed.
   Then for her pleasure, Brooke roughly rode me to three shrieking orgasms while I palmed her tits and thumbed her clit. Her third climax came when I circled my hand around and popped a finger into her clenched asshole, and the resulting inner clamping around my shaft forced me to erupt like a geyser into her quivering quim.
   We then took a short break, cuddling and basking in our incestuous sibling love. While a novice to most sexual things, Brooke was an accomplished kisser and we spent a lot of time just rolling around the blankets, rubbing our bodies against each other and devouring each other’s mouths.
   If you’d told me a year ago that I’d have sex with Brandi, my hot older sister, I’d have said you were crazy. Yeah, I’d harbored the fantasies, but things like that just didn’t happen in real life.
   If you told me I’d be rolling around naked and playfully kissing little Brooke post-coital in Dawn’s and my special spot, I’d have tried to kick your ass for even suggesting my younger sister was capable of such a depraved activity.
   And yet here I was. I’d always loved my sister. It was what made me put up with her juvenile machinations over the years. And even now, our physical unions were just an extension of that familial love and trust. We’d crossed a boundary that could never be un-crossed, and yet the act had only bonded us even closer together. She was my sister. She was a part of me. And she would always be a part of me.
   To our mutual pleasure, sometime in the middle of our cuddling I slipped a new erection into Brooke from behind. Spooned together on our sides, I wrapped my arms around her while she held my hands against her chest, humming happily. And together we slowly rocked together, arching our necks and twisting around to passionately kiss one another until the pleasure overwhelmed us and I was pouring out my liquid love into her compliant body.
   And then we slept.* * *
   After lunch, I pulled Dawn aside as we passed up an offer to go play Ultimate Frisbee and instead found a quiet place to lay down a blanket in the shade. Off in the distance, we could see the big rectangular field where the frisbee game was being played, and further beyond that the lake.
   “How are you feeling?” I asked first.
   “Better. Still cramping, but better.” Dawn brushed a lock of her fine blonde hair behind her ear and smiled at me. The sun was glinting through the overhead leaves, casting a few direct rays of sunshine over her pretty face. Her crystal clear blue eyes sparkled at me, and I took a moment to absorb her beauty, complete from head to toe and more than a little arousing in her white halter-top and khaki shorts.
   Without another thought, I sighed and murmured,“I love you.” It felt great to say it and have absolutely no doubt that I knew what I was talking about. No wondering whether it was just teenage infatuation or just a phrase I needed to say in order to keep my girlfriend happy. I really and truly loved Dawn. I always had.
   Dawn beamed at me and replied,“I love you, too.” And then she tilted her head and got a naughty grin on her face. “So how was this morning? Brooke seemed to be walking a little funny.”
   I blushed and looked down.“It was fine. We talked a lot about the boundaries of our relationship and her meeting boys and having her own life. The last thing I want to do is have her get complacent just because she’s got me at home.”
   Dawn nodded.“I was telling her the same thing.”
   I arched an eyebrow at my girlfriend.“And what is this thing about you using her as a rat to keep me in line?”
   Dawn giggled and looked away.“Actually, that was HER idea. The girl loves you, but I think shelikes being a little evil sometimes.”
   I took Dawn’s hands in my own and said softly, “Well she’s welcome to keep an eye on me. Because I’m going to be faithful to you.”
   “Well, faithful while fucking your little sister’s brains out,” Dawn teased.
   “Well…” I turned red. “Aren’t you and DJ going to be playing around as well? Fair is fair.”
   Dawn laughed and squeezed my hand.“Relax. I like it better this way. I have no fear of Brooke and I’d much rather you be sleeping with her than getting all frustrated and looking elsewhere.”
   “I WON’T look elsewhere,” I said earnestly.
   Dawn sighed, looking at me with a mixture of pity and regret.“Ben, I’d like to believe that. But I know you. You always wanted to believe you were a ‘nice guy’ when we turned thirteen; but really, you were a nice guy because no girl wanted you back then. You were just a little dork. If a girl had gone after you, you’d have caved immediately. Remember what happened with Dayna? And that’s still a part of who you are today.”
   “I’ve changed,” I insisted.
   “Changed? You cheated on all three of your girlfriends. I know you love me Ben, but it’s going to be really hard when your hormones kick in and some hot girl flashes her boobs at you and wants to get wicked. I’ve said it before, Ben. You’re my moron best friend and I know you better than that. Seriously, if Brooke doesn’t happen to be around to relieve the pressure, what will you do?”
   I pulled my hand back, feeling hurt.“Don’t you have any faith in me?”
   Dawn sighed.“It’s not a question of faith, Ben. I love you. I’ll always love you, no matter what. And all I’m really asking of you is that you love me too. Sex for sex’s sake isn’t that big a deal. Save your love for me. I can live with the rest.”
   “What, you can live with me fucking other girls?”
   Dawn exhaled, frowning slightly.“Well… I wouldn’t say I like the idea.”
   “Then I won’t. I’m trying to grow up and be mature here.”
   Dawn smiled sweetly and held my cheek, leaning into kiss me.“Okay. If you can do it, I’ll be happy. I love you Ben. I really would be thrilled knowing you’re saving yourself for me.”
   “I will,” I said firmly.* * *
   Fortunately for me, both Dawn and DJ were in better spirits the next morning, and once again we were a happy foursome frolicking together in a big, sweaty pile of naked flesh. I’m not even entirely sure who’s mouth I was in when I blew the first time, but whoever it was quickly shared my load with the other girls while I gasped for oxygen while flat on my back and staring skywards.
   The afternoon found the four of us dressed in our swimsuits and floating on inner tubes on the lake. Random physics and gentle currents conspired to constantly scatter us apart from each other, but a quick tug on an arm or leg here and there and our foursome managed to always keep in close proximity to each other. The tickling caresses of each other’s hands were rather pleasant as well.
   Now you’d think that after three weeks of camp, I’d get used to seeing the girls in their bikinis… but I wasn’t. The budding 15-year-olds, while still growing into their bodies, already had healthy curves that captured my imagination. DJ floated along with slicked back wet braids, her body position in the inner tube thrusting her growing tits into the air where the moist fabric of her top clung to the globes like a second skin. I salivated to think of how those puppies would only grow for a few more years, and I wondered if they would still taste as sweet as Dayna’s.
   Brooke, while not nearly as built as her buxom blonde friend, was still quite enticing, especially since she was currently face-down on her tube, her perfectly shaped ass aimed back at me (deliberately, I’m sure). I had just fucked my little sister from behind that morning, and when I craned my head around to stare at the perfect peach-shaped butt, pleasant memories from hours before filtered into my brain.
   And Dawn, as usual, was the most magnificent creature of feminine beauty around. She was an angel in white today, the triangles of her top both supporting and showing off her prodigious breasts. Her long, lithe legs trailed out in the water, glisteningly wet. And the smile she reserved for me was dazzling in its radiance.
   As I floated along, enjoying the contrast of cool water and warm sunshine, I mused on my current situation. THIS was heaven. I only wished this could truly be an endless summer.
   But all great things must eventually come to an end. The time to return home and to the real world was near, and it was time to start wrapping things up.* * *
   When there were just two full days of camp left to go, the four of us were heading back to the cabins to shower and change out of our wet gear. As the resident pack mule, I always ended up carrying just about everything: clothes, towels, beach blankets, etc. And while I was packing up, I saw the three girls huddled together in deep conversation.
   When the trio broke apart, I gave Dawn an inquisitive look but she gave me the“we’ll-talk-later” glance. I shrugged and the four of us headed off.
   Along the way, we got the usual catcalls from horny teenage boys.
   “Check out the rack on the young blonde. She’s gonna suffocate some poor guy with those in a couple years.”
   “Look at the ASS on the little brunette! Dayyy-ummm!”
   True, Brooke did have a nice ass. But that didn’t mean a brother wanted to hear about some guy leering at his little sister. DJ either. I lifted my Oakleys up my forehead and fixed the guys with a glare. “Be polite to the ladies,” I warned.
   The girls giggled, the guys grinned, and we all went our separate ways. Dawn then complained that my holding her hand was cramping her style, as she didn’t get a flirty comment that time around.
   Upon reaching the cabins, I stopped at the Evans’ place first to drop off their gear. DJ went inside to snag the first shower. And then unexpectedly, Brooke then darted forward to me, kissing me on the cheek and hugging me quickly before saying, “See you later!” And as I looked bewildered at my sister, she hopped off the porch and went down the lane to our family’s cabin.
   “What?” I wondered aloud to the empty air. The routine was for the Evans sisters to shower and change in their cabin and Brooke and I to use ours. I’d be seeing Brooke in about… thirty seconds. Or so went the routine.
   But then to my surprise, Dawn stepped forward and wrapped her arms around me. With elegant grace, she leaned in and planted a firm kiss on my lips, filled with a rich passion I wasn’t expecting.
   “What was that for?” I asked when she pulled back.
   “I love you, Ben.”
   “I love you, too,” I replied in a cautious tone, still bewildered.
   Dawn then just nodded her head towards the open door of her family’s cabin. “DJ’s never had any time alone with you, so she asked for this before camp ended. My parents won’t be back until after dinner. Show her a good time and have fun!”
   “Wha—?” I asked in confusion as Dawn turned and hopped off the porch.
   “I’ll take a shower at your place after Brooke. We’ll meet up in an hour to go to dinner.” Dawn then smiled and went down the lane towards my family’s cabin.
   “Come on, Ben,” DJ said from behind me. I turned around to find her standing in the hallway, her hands bracing against each opposite wall, wearing nothing but a smirk on her face. The catcaller had been right. DJ had a NICE rack.
   I arched an eyebrow at the situation, but I went ahead and walked inside, closing the door behind me. Demurely, DJ took my hand and led me back to the shower, which was just big enough to comfortably fit two. And once she had the water set to the right temperature, the youngest Evans sister stepped in, slicked her hair back, and pulled me after her.
   The 15-year-old blonde then molded the front of her body to me, letting the shower spray against her back while she tilted her head and invited me down for a kiss. I took the invitation willingly, bending my head and parting my lips to meet hers and also accept her tongue which snaked into my mouth. DJ’s fingers tightened their grip in my hair, and in that moment I knew that she had her older sister’s talent for volcanic kisses.
   Moaning softly, DJ kissed me for another long minute while our bodies heated up from both hot water and our own arousal. And when she pulled back, her blue eyes had a smoky lust in them as she sensually murmured,“Thank you, Ben.”
   I smiled.“Thanks for what?”
   “For this. For this entire summer. I’d only dreamed sex could be this good.” DJ smiled and pecked my lips again. “I’d had such high hopes when I started dating my boyfriend. But once I lost my cherry I felt nothing but disappointment. Wham, bam, oops, I’m sorry. The second time was no better. I started to wonder if I was a lesbian because I could only orgasm with Dawn and Brooke.”
   There was purr in DJ’s voice as she gripped my head and grinned wickedly at me. “But now I know there’s nothing greater than having a man who knows what he’s doing. Nothing better than having a thick column of meat throbbing inside my little pussy. And only someone like you will do.”
   “You’re still young, kiddo,” I ran my fingers over her hair. “You’ve got lots of time both to learn and to teach some of these boys how to please you.”
   “I know,” she smiled and then she crowed, “Look out world! DJ’s on the loose!” And then she planted another volcanic kiss on me.
   DJ’s leg came up and wrapped around my thigh. She started to hump her crotch at me as our kiss deepened, and for a moment I thought she was going to try and fuck me right there in the shower. But I nearly lost my balance and since we had an hour, I didn’t want to rush. “Hey relax, relax. Let’s get cleaned up first,” I soothed her. “Want me to wash your back?”
   “Nah. I want you to wash myfront!” DJ giggled, the delightful expression on her face momentarily reminding me that this was really just an enthusiastic 15-year-old and not yet a fully developed young woman.
   Of course, I was just an enthusiastic 17-year-old and not yet a fully developed young man. And I suitably had a teenager’s enthusiasm for showering with a hot, naked girl. By the time I was done, DJ was squeaky clean. Actually, her nipples and pussy were a little bit raw, but the shuddering orgasm she’d had while I was fingering her provided enough lubrication so that she wasn’t in any pain.
   After the shower, DJ and I tumbled onto her bed. I quickly had my tongue imbedded into her snatch while she writhed and twisted in the sheets, moaning,“I love this! I love this! Can we bring a mattress on the hike tomorrow?”
   I laughed into DJ’s crotch and moved up to kiss her, slobbering her own orgasmic fluids all over her face before moving back down and resuming my afternoon dessert. She happily wrapped her thighs around my head and ran her fingers through my hair, urging me on with repeated chants of “Fuck yeah! Eat me! Eat me!”
   I felt more than tasted her orgasm. DJ’s pussy muscles did their pulsing thing and all of a sudden, I felt incredible pressure against my cheeks as DJ bucked her hips off the bed and screamed in exquisite agony. And while she was still screaming, I pried her legs off my head, stood up, and buried my cock to the hilt in one powerful thrust.
   “FUUUCK!” DJ howled at the invasion, having never felt so much of my dick in so short a period. She beat her heels against my lower back and clawed at my shoulders with her hands, and just seconds after I got myself fully seated I felt her incredible tightness clamp back down around my shaft, locking me into place. And so I was stuck there, unable to move as the blonde teenager bucked and heaved and thrashed through her orgasm.
   Even when she was done, she wasn’t DONE. Now this was really my first one-on-one with DJ. Every other time we’d had sex had been with at least Dawn or Brooke present and joining in. But just because we were alone for the first time didn’t mean DJ and I were tenderly making love or enjoying some romantic solitude. No, DJ andI fucked each other’s lights out, and we reveled in having all the focus and attention of the other.
   “Fuck me, Ben! Fuck me! Ream me! Pound me! Hurt me!” she squealed.
   Urged on by DJ’s words, I flung my hips with increasing force.
   “More! More! Harder Ben! Harder! OHHH!!!”
   Buoyed by the springiness of the mattress and freed of any concern for bruising DJ’s back into hard ground, I literally pounded DJ senseless. We fucked and thrashed and threw our bodies at each other. I hammered her crotch with my pelvis without restraint, abruptly jarring her light body over and again until her head simply went slack and she started drooling.
   And while she was still panting for oxygen in recovery from her latest orgasm, I flipped her over onto her stomach, elevated her ass, and entered her steaming cunt from behind while I was straddling both of her legs. From this extreme angle, I got deeper than I ever had before, and the young girl was helpless beneath me as I reamed her out to my own explosive climax, filling her up with my hot, thick cream.
   “YESSS!!!” DJ shrieked as she felt my ejaculation inside her. “I can feel it! I love it! More!!!”
   My cock complied, shooting another great wad into the young teen, and while my hands gripped her body beneath me, I emptied out the rest of my balls into her still spasming cunt.
   When I was done, I collapsed onto DJ’s back, my heavy weight crushing her into the mattress. She simply groaned and when I moved to roll off of her, she brought up an arm while whimpering, “No, stay, stay. Your weight feels good on me.”
   When she’d recovered, DJ exhaled and sighed mournfully. “I can’t get enough of this Ben. What am I going to do after we go home?”
   I smiled and tenderly pecked the young teen’s cheek. “You’ll figure it out, kiddo.”
   “I’ll miss you, Ben,” she said softly, humming while holding my weight against her back.
   “You’ll find someone else,” I assured her. “Some cute boy to wrap around your little finger and give you pleasure at your merest whim.”
   “Hmm,” she giggled. “Sounds like a plan.”
   “Just be careful, kiddo,” I cautioned and rolled off. This time, DJ let me and we wound up lying face-to-face on our sides. “There are a lot of guys out there who might mistreat you. Don’t get in over your head.”
   “Relax, Ben. I’m a big girl now,” she smiled and pecked my nose.
   “Okay, okay. But listen to your sisters. They love you.”
   DJ smiled.“Ben, we all love you.”* * *
   The end of the night found Dawn and I laying out on the big rock by the lake. It was the same one we’d used as a diving platform that afternoon while horsing around the lake in addition to riding the waterslide and rope swing. Tonight, we were both fully dressed and staring into the sky, Dawn lying perpendicular to me with her head resting on my belly.
   Dawn sighed and reached her hand back to me. I took it and squeezed gently while she said,“DJ’s moping about having to go back home. She says the boys there have no idea what they’re doing and wishes your family would move back to NorCal so you could keep her satisfied.”
   I chuckled and replied,“I wish we could move back so I could keep YOU satisfied.”
   “Mmm, me too,” Dawn sighed. And then my girlfriend lifted her head off my belly and turned on her side so she could look me in the eyes. “Ben, we really need to talk.”
   “About what?”
   “About us. This summer has been great. It’s been the happiest four weeks of my life. But let’s face it, it’s just four weeks. We’re going to be apart for eleven months. What’s going to happen to us?”
   I blinked twice and looked at Dawn earnestly.“I love you. I’ll always love you.”
   “I love you too, Ben,” Dawn gave me a wan smile, but almost immediately frowned. “Nothing will ever change that. And because I know nothing will change that, I need to let you go.”
   I sat up, hearing the fatality in her words.“Let me go? What’s that supposed to mean?”
   “I mean, set you free. I love being your girlfriend and nothing would make me happier than telling the whole world you’re my boyfriend, but that wouldn’t be fair to you.” Dawn bit her lip. “I can’t ask you to be faithful to me.”
   “Why not? Isn’t faithfulness what couples in love do?” I asked.
   “I don’t know. Do they?” Dawn’s eyes narrowed.
   Guilt over my three previous girlfriends struck me to the core, and I winced in shame.“That’s why I want US to be different.”
   “Ben, don’t get my hopes up,” Dawn’s voice cracked in agony while her lower lip started to quiver. I felt a chill come over my heart as I heard the both the plea and the pain in her words.
   Dawn continued.“I know you promised to save yourself for me, but be realistic. You’re a walking hormone. You’ve been screwing three girls constantly for weeks now, and do you really think you can go cold turkey for eleven months?”
   “Uh… well…” I stammered. I wanted to immediately respond ‘yes, of course.’ But eleven months sounded like a LONG time to go without sex. Shrugging helplessly, I said, “Well, it won’t be totally cold turkey. You DID say I could still be with Brooke, right?”
   “And what if Brooke gets serious with a boyfriend? It wouldn’t be fair to her for you to restrict her in any way.”
   “I know, I know,” I nodded. “But… I love you, Dawn.”
   She smiled weakly.“I love you, too. But that’s not the point.”
   “I want you to be my girlfriend, Dawn,” I insisted.
   “And I want you to be my boyfriend, Ben,” she replied warmly.
   “It’s just a year. One more year of school. We’ll both get into Berkeley. And then we’ll be together always after that. Didn’t you say you wanted to marry me?”
   Dawn squeezed my hand.“And we will. When we grow up,” she reminded me sternly, her tone slightly condescending as she willed me to understand. “But we’re still just kids, Ben. And I know if I try to hold akid to a loyal relationship, I’ll lose.”
   My eyebrows pinched in forlornly. For some reason, her words made ME feel like a kid while she was already a fully-formed adult woman, just waiting for me to catch up. And like a kid, I found myself pouting without realizing it, stubbornly insisting,“I’ll do it. Just you wait and see.”
   Dawn smiled sweetly at me, but I could see the resignation in her eyes.“No promises, Ben. Never make a promise you can’t keep.”
   “Fine, no promises. But you’ll see.”
   She smiled and leaned in towards me.“I hope so.”* * *
   It was the last full day of camp, and consequently, the last morning hike. The girls were quiet as all four of us loaded up and set off down the trail, each of us lost in our own thoughts.
   Brooke smiled easily, bumping herself into DJ and seemingly more interested in spending her last few hours with her best friend than necessarily doing anything with me. After all, Brooke didn’t have to say goodbye to me. Of the four of us, she looked the most relaxed, thinking only of enjoying the moment without serious worry about the future.
   DJ similarly reserved her fondest glances for Brooke. They’d been first separated at age 8, young enough to nearly forget about each other in the intervening years between summer camps. But for one month at a time, they were inseparable best friends. And I imagined the two 15-year-olds had a tight bond not so different from the one between me and Dawn.
   And yet DJ also would coyly glance back at me, looks of pure lust on her face for the introduction to carnal pleasure I’d given her. And in her sparkling blue eyes I could also see her mind working, figuring out what in the future she would do with the sexual creature I’d unleashed inside of her.
   Dawn, on the other hand, was a wreck. I was her first real love. Perhaps she’d even fallen in love with me way back when we were in our early teens and just exploring our sexuality. And how does any teenager feel when they are about to be parted from whom they consider to be “The One”? Look at Romeo and Juliet. They freaking killed themselves rather than be parted. And even though Dawn and I weren’t quite that intense, it still hurt to know that in little more than a day, we wouldn’t be together anymore. I could see the pain on her face as she squeezed my hand, holding me tightly as we hiked along the trail.
   I thought I’d loved before. Never as intensely as with Dawn, but the emotions and infatuations I’d felt for my girlfriends had been real nonetheless. And yet, my prior experience didn’t make the upcoming departure any easier for me. I was deliriously happy when Dawn was with me, and I hated for that feeling to ever end.
   Perhaps fittingly, our initial actions upon reaching our special clearing befitted our emotions towards each other. Dawn and I fell into each other’s arms, rolling around the blanket, kissing with a frantic urgency as if each touch of each other’s lips might be our last. Our clothes stayed on. Removing them just wasn’t important. Holding her cheeks in my hands and feeling her love invisibly emanate towards me were the priorities.
   Meanwhile, Brooke and DJ moved further away, sitting together while staring out across the creek, deep in their own conversation. I imagine they were discussing what their plans for the near future would be and figuring out how to keep in touch. Theirs was a relationship based on their friendship, not sex. And they didn’t need to stare or watch Dawn and me. They’d watched us often enough.
   If they had turned to watch us, at some point they would have started to see a show. After ten minutes of soulful kissing and expressing our love for each other, Dawn’s and my embrace followed its natural progression to a more physical expression of love. She was on top when my hand snaked beneath her shirt, lifting it up her back so that I could more easily access her naked skin. Dawn pulled it off the rest of the way, tossing it to the side and then hungrily kissing me once again.
   The shirt was quickly followed by my fingers opening the clasp of her bra, freeing those big melons to my chest, then hands and lips. We rolled over and while I feasted on my favorite titflesh, Dawn pulled my shirt off and then squirmed around to remove her shorts and panties.
   By the time Dawn and I were fully naked and rubbing against each other while making out passionately, Brooke and DJ had similarly progressed to the point of physical affection. Our little sisters were lying together on the next blanket over, heads delicately bobbing at one another as they french kissed sweetly and tenderly.
   Dawn and I took our time. It was as if hurrying would only bring about our separation that much more quickly, and neither of us wanted that. Even when fully nude, with my hard cock almost uncomfortably grinding against Dawn’s hip, we didn’t rush things and enjoyed the simple pleasures of kissing and caressing each other’s body.
   DJ, on the other hand, was eager for the promised orgy. She and Brooke got themselves naked, and while she leaned back and guided my little sister’s head between her legs, the blonde 15-year-old twisted her torso around, interposing herself between me and her older sister to grab hold of my erection and then swiftly stuff it into her mouth.
   I groaned at the sudden rush of pleasure, my mouth molding around Dawn’s lips before I tore myself away to see what had happened to my cock. And when I saw the cute blonde bobbing her head up and down in my lap, I sagged back on my elbows while panting at the sky.
   Dawn smirked when she realized her little sister had beaten her to the punch. But not one to complain about a situation she’d created for herself, Dawn merely took the opportunity presented and moved up to straddle my face. And while I sighed happily at the youngest Evans daughter fellating me, the middle Evans daughter sank her wet slit down onto my stiffened tongue.
   We were a chain of oral pleasure for several minutes. DJ was the first to cum, the simultaneous pleasure of Brooke’s agile cunnilingus and thrill of sucking my dick bringing her over the edge into ecstasy in rapid order. Dawn was next, as I could do nothing less than my best when it came to my loving her. And DJ very nearly made me pop as well, but I was saved by her orgasm as she had to pull her head away to gasp and wheeze out her climax.
   But the gasping and wheezing were not signs of energy loss. No, as soon as DJ recovered, she quickly vaulted herself into my lap, holding my shaft upright and then impaling her extreme tightness onto me, lunging three or four times before she managed to sink all the way down.
   It was a good thing I’d already gotten Dawn to orgasm. The feeling of DJ humping herself on me was enough to distract me from my task as I groaned and focused inward on the pleasure. And when my eyes refocused upwards, I could see that Dawn’s big tits were being skillfully manipulated from behind by DJ’s smaller hands. And to my everlasting delight, I was just in time to see Dawn twist her head around and meet DJ in a tongue-filled kiss of Sapphic arousal, the two blue-eyed blonde sisters an extremely arousing sight.
   “Like that, Deej?” Dawn husked quietly at her little sister from an inch away. “Feel my boyfriend’s dick deep inside you. Feel that thick cock stretching out your tight cunny. You’d better be nice to me if you want a piece of it next year.”
   “Oh, Dawn! Oh, Dawn!” DJ whimpered. “I love it. I love Ben fucking me! I love being fucked! It’s the greatest thing EVER! Please! I’ll do anything! Just let him keep fucking me!”
   Dawn giggled and kissed her sister’s cheek and neck while rubbing DJ’s tits in her hand. Brooke by now had also joined in on the action, reaching around to rub her best friend’s clit. And taking a cue from what I’d done to the girls before, as the blonde 15-year-old approached climax, Brooke obviously sucked on her index finger while grinning at me, and then stealthily popped her lubricated digit into DJ’s rectum.
   “Ah, FUCK!” DJ shrieked and came, her body jerking as the wave of pleasure hit her like a ton of bricks. The young blonde’s spine went rigid and abruptly, she toppled backwards and fell off my dick, caught at the last second by Dawn who gently lowered her younger sister to the blankets while tenderly nipping and rubbing as DJ’s climax continued shaking her body.
   With an evil little grin, Brooke was quick to take DJ’s place, hopping up and then sinking her even tighter pussy onto my shaft, working her hips like a belly dancer to cram every last inch of me inside of her. And when she finally worked herself down onto me, she puffed a stray lock of hair out of her face and grinned happily. “Hey bro. If only Mom could see us now.”
   My eyes went wide.“Don’t joke about that or I won’t fuck you.”
   Brooke pouted and then hunched her hips, clenching her inner muscles around my shaft like a third hand.“What, and miss all this?” she asked innocently.
   Oh, I was screwed. If Brooke actually learned how to use her feminine wiles to manipulate me in ways her backstabbing attempts never succeeded, I was so screwed.
   But at least, for now, so was she. I rolled us over so that Brooke squealed. And without dislodging my prick, we managed to settle so that my little sister was on her back with her legs hooked over my shoulders while I started screwing her. And rocking myself forward, I pulled her hips up and off the blanket, exposing her cute ass. And with one vicious slap, I spanked my little sister’s buttcheek.
   “Oww!”
   “Don’t be a bitch, Brooke.”
   “What?”
   I spanked her again.
   Brooke’s eyes went wide and she went quiet, her face becoming a mask of innocence. And in a baby-cute voice, she insisted, “No, sir. I’ll be good.”
   “Good girl,” I grinned, and then bent to kiss her while my hips re-started their pumping motion.
   My little sister, folded in half beneath me, rocked with each stroke and whimpered happily. Her eyes lit up while I pistoned in and out of her clenching pussy and compressed her even tighter beneath my weight. And I knew things were going well when Brooke panted into my face,“Spank me again, big brother.”
   I grinned and let fly with my open palm. After all of my sister’s evil manipulations over the years, she was finally getting the spanking she deserved.
   While I complied with Brooke’s wishes by reddening her ass, Dawn came over and lay herself down beside my sister, rolling herself back and elevating her legs into a mimic of my little sister’s position. “Come on, Brooke,” Dawn complained. “You can have him all you want next week and beyond. Let me have my boyfriend back for a bit.”
   Brooke grinned and kissed my nose, then slipped her legs off my shoulders while I pulled myself out. And then moving a few feet over to the left, I hoisted Dawn’s legs over my shoulders, settled my cock into position, and then thrust my way forward into my lover’s quim.
   “Unnnghh! Yes!” Dawn grunted. “Fuck me, baby. Fuck me and cum inside me. I want to still feel you dribbling into my panties tomorrow morning.”
   I grinned. DJ’s blowjob, then both DJ’s and Brooke’s clenching pussies had just about brought me to my limits of pleasure. Dawn wouldn’t have to wait very long. “One batch of scalding jizz, cumming right up!” I announced. And then with my hips thrust as far forward as humanly possible, I let loose with a torrent of sperm right against the back of Dawn’s womb.
   “Unnnghh!” Dawn jerked as the first jet splattered against her insides. “Fill me, Ben! Fill me!” She screamed, vibrated, and eventually went limp, dropping her legs off my shoulders to fall heavily onto the blankets.
   But we weren’t done it. Far from it. After I injected Dawn with a thick wad of cock cream, DJ sixty-nined with her and slurped all of my essence out, holding it her mouth to orally pass it back to her sister so that the 17-year-old blonde could swallow some of it down.
   That sight plus Brooke’s enthusiastic fellatio brought me back to hardness. And while the two Evans sisters were still on top of each other french kissing with sticky globs of cum between them, I settled in behind the girls and alternated thrusting into each of their pussies every few minutes. The mental high of screwing the two beautiful blondes added fuel to my lustful fire, and eventually I blasted my second load into DJ.
   This time it was Brooke’s turn to slurp me out of her best friend while Dawn crawled over to cuddle and pet my limp member. I was pretty winded and tired by that point, having done most of the recent thrusting work. But as soon as I showed signs of new life, Dawn bent over and began worshipping me with her mouth.
   After a few minutes, my ego demanded I get more involved in the action and I made to have Dawn mount me, but she stubbornly insisted on remaining where she was, with her lips wrapped around my shaft. So I let her, and as I lay my head back and enjoyed the pleasant warmth of my girlfriend’s fellatio, I felt my cockhead nudging against the entrance to her throat.
   “Dawn?” I asked warily just once. And then with a deep breath of air, my girlfriend pushed past her gag reflex and suddenly her lips were around the base of my cock. “Oh, SHIT!” I gasped, never expecting it out of her.
   With tears in her eyes, Dawn quickly popped off and smiled with satisfaction. But not one to leave things half-finished, she quickly gulped some oxygen and then returned, deep-throating me completely and then fucking the head of my cock up and down in her throat.
   This time, when I said her name, it was a much more urgent,“Dawn!” In point of fact, it was a warning, because as she bobbed up and down, within a few seconds the tight constriction had me blowing my third wad of the morning straight into her belly.
   This time, Dawn choked and she popped off, taking the second burst of cum right in her face, forcing her to squeeze her eyes shut against the cannon force of my cock, which was still spurting creamy streams all over her forehead and cheeks. And even when we both thought I was done, Dawn was just opening her eyes when my dick spat out a final glob, which landed on her left cheek.
   Panting with arousal and gratitude, I smiled as I saw the cum-covered face of my love. For her part, she wasn’t dissuaded by the unexpected semen-shower, smiling brightly with a twinkle in her crystal blue eyes. “That’s two,” she said happily.
   “Two?” I wondered aloud.
   “Two,” Dawn nodded. “One load in my cunt. One load down my throat.”
   “And one into DJ,” I nodded towards the younger teen, who giggled and rubbed her own sodden pussy. Wryly, I shook my head, worn out from the three orgasms. “I’m not as young as I used to be.”
   “Well, there’s one more to go,” Dawn said firmly. And with that, my girlfriend reached into her pack, one hand pulling out a handkerchief, which she used to mop up her face. And in the other hand, she had a familiar tube of Astroglide.
   I distinctly remembered the day I first let my fingertips run around Dawn’s anus. She’d ordered me on no uncertain terms never to try putting a finger inside. Even when Dayna was bugging me to bugger her, Dawn had distastefully described the act as disgusting.
   But at my arched, questioning eyebrow, Dawn looked at me with dead seriousness and obvious lust.“You got my oral virginity. You got my cherry. I want you to have all three Ben. I want you to be the only man to ever fuck my ass.”* * *
   “Are you sure?” I asked for the umpteenth time.
   “Shut up before I get nervous about this,” Dawn rolled her eyes and then hesitantly lifted her legs up and back. If we were going to do this, she wanted to be able to look me in my eyes. She’d blown past my feeble attempts at reasoning that she didn’t need to do this and that I loved her anyways, but Dawn wanted to make her own statement about her level of commitment, both to herself as well as to me.
   Ever supportive, DJ helped to hold Dawn’s legs back while Brooke went down on me, my sister’s hot little mouth making sure I was hard despite my misgivings. Sure, I wanted to fuck Dawn’s ass, but I was wary of hurting her. And I’d already been weakened by three recent orgasms. But Brooke’s talented tongue kept me energized andthen she guided my hips into place.
   DJ then took over, gripping my shaft and aiming the head at Dawn’s puckered rosebud. Dawn and I were too busy staring each other in the eyes with love, tenderness, and affection to pay much attention. But once DJ had my cock settled, I instinctively knew to push.
   Dawn’s anus resisted me at first. But then she took a breath and consciously relaxed as she exhaled, and with a little more pressure from my end, her sphincter popped open and my mushroom head pushed through.
   Immediately, Dawn panicked and clamped up tighter than anything, squeezing my cock almost painfully. But as DJ stroked her forehead and I stroked her arms, Dawn relaxed again and with copious amounts of lube easing the way, my shaft began burrowing deeper into her bowels.
   “Unnnnnnnghhh,” Dawn threw her head back and groaned as she felt my cock descending. “So fucking full,” she sighed as her eyes closed and her neck went limp. And after a few more seconds, I bottomed out inside Dawn’s once virgin-asshole.
   “That’s everything,” I murmured.
   Dawn smiled, at first just a smile of satisfaction that she’d taken it all. But when I started to pull back, Dawn gasped and that smile started becoming a bigger grin. And with her eyes wide open, blue irises glittering, my girlfriend looked at me and started laughing. “FUCK! Dayna was right. This feels GOOD!”
   The enthusiasm in Dawn’s voice was unmistakable. She seemed as surprised as I was, something that confused me for a moment. But there was nothing confusing about the way Dawn suddenly lunged her hips at me, re-impaling her ass on my cock. And then she was urgently tugging down on my arms so that we could kiss wetly and urgently while my paramour began to fuck her own ass against me.
   “Oh, Ben! Ohhh, Ben! Fuck my ass! Fuck it! Fuck me!” Dawn crooned while scissoring her legs behind my lower back and using the leverage to hump herself even harder against my invading prick.
   “Oh, Dawn!” I groaned.
   “Like it Ben? Is it tight? Is my ass tight for you? Don’t you love fucking it?” She gasped with a giggle in her voice. “Oh, it’s incredible Ben! I never thought…! I should have listened to Dayna. I feel so fucking full! I want you to do this to me all the time! Fuck my ass! Fill my ass with your thick column of meat! I’ll let you do this whenever you want, Ben! Fuck it! Fuck my ass! Fuck my tight little ass!”
   “I’m fucking it! I’m fucking you!” I grunted. My hands were now on Dawn’s hips, cupping her buttcheeks from below and gripping them for leverage as I vaulted myself in and out of the blonde teen’s rectum over and over again. DJ was still holding onto Dawn’s ankles, pulling them back past her head, keeping my girlfriend in a submissive V-shape beneath me as I pounded away at her defenseless asshole. And Brooke simply leaned over and watched in fascination, gripping my shoulders instinctively while she observed my thick pole reaming its way in and out of my girlfriend.
   “Oh, shit! I’m cumming, Ben! I’m cumming with your dick in my ass!” Dawn’s hand had relocated down to her crotch, and with me repeatedly shafting her asshole and her own hand thumbing her clit, the blonde suddenly arched her back off the ground and howled out her pleasure.
   “I love it! I love it! I love you!” Dawn screamed as she came. “Take me! Take all of me. I’m yours. I’ll give you everything, Ben! I love you!”
   In that moment, I slammed forward a final time, jerking to a stop so suddenly that Brooke’s grip of my shoulder was momentarily dislodged. And with a groan of complete and utter satisfaction, I poured out into Dawn’s asshole every drop of cum I had left in my body, completing the trifecta. And then like a mighty king of beasts felled by the tiniest of arrows, I collapsed onto Dawn’s body, feeling her love for me piercing my heart.
   And then with every fiber of my being, I told her,“I love you, too.”* * *
   “Hurry uuuup!” Eden whined from her spot in the van.
   “Yeah!” Emma chimed in. “We’re ready!”
   “Shut up!” Brooke screeched and then turned to hug DJ. “See you next year.”
   “Safe trip, Beth,” Deanna Evans hugged my mom.
   “Drive safe, Michael,” Jack Evans shook my dad’s hand.
   “We will,” Dad replied, and then went to the driver’s door.
   Dawn and I stayed quiet, still wrapped up in an embrace we’d scarcely left since last night. The previous evening, we’d returned hand-in-hand, neither of us wanting to part just yet. As it turned out, our parents sensed this and upon arrival at the cabins, we found that DJ was bunking on my bed and that Dawn and I been given permission to spend the night together.
   After thanking both our parents profusely, Dawn and I slipped into bed together along with a warning from her parents to keep the noise level down. We’d gotten naked and then quietly made love, falling asleep together while I was still inside Dawn’s saturated pussy. It felt sooo right. We were together the first night of camp and together the last.
   We woke up in the morning and softly made love again. And even once fully dressed, Dawn and I could scarcely go a few seconds without touching each other in some small way.
   But now it was time.
   Dawn and I had been hugging for a solid five minutes now when my mom tapped my shoulder.“Gotta go, Ben.”
   I sighed in abject sorrow. Dawn just tilted her head and kissed me tenderly.
   “I love you,” she husked and then whimpered softly, her face pinching in with the same sadness I felt in my own heart.
   I moved my thumb up to brush away the tears dribbling down her cheeks, and then pecked her quickly once more.“I love you, too. You’re my Dawn… forever, remember? Don’t forget that.”
   “I won’t. And you’re my Ben.”
   I nodded. And with a heavy heart, I hopped into the van, Brooke joining me afterwards and then closing the double-doors shut behind her. Dawn circled around to my window and blew me a kiss. I waved sadly and then my dad started the engine.
   It was time to return to the real world, where friends, school, and many more romantic complications awaited.* * *
   I loved Dawn. I wanted to marry her someday. It all fit, didn’t it? I’d literally shared a crib with her on occasion when we were infants, shared a sandbox when we were toddlers, and even upon growing up, we’d shared our hearts, minds, and bodies. She was girl next door, best friend, and hot babe rolled into one. And she loved me.
   I believed we would be together forever. It was so easy when we were at camp. No school, no outside influences. We could spend every day together, all day, worrying about nothing but making each other happy. But we weren’t at camp anymore. She was in NorCal. I was in Orange County. And we weren’t scheduled to meet up again for eleven months.
   I would love her always; that I knew. But after dominating my thoughts for four weeks, would I be able to keep my love for Dawn bright for the next year? Or was it out of sight, out of mind? Yeah, we had the cell phone idea. And we also had email and IMing. But occasional calls and emails were far different from daily contact and physical warmth.
   I loved her. Shouldn’t that be enough? Love conquers all. Simple, right?
   As I looked out the window of the van as we pulled onto our street, I knew that things were no longer so simple. First there was Keira McNeil, who stepped off her porch and waved to us as we passed. My first lover was someone who knew all my secrets would always have an influence in my life for as long as she was around.
   Then, after we parked and all piled out of the van, I looked across the street and down a house or two to find that Adrienne Dennis was standing outside her open garage, staring back at me. When she realized I’d seen her, the gorgeous young woman offered up a tentative wave, and as I took in her brief summer attire, I felt a stirring of old lust inside me as I waved back. But even beyond the physical lust, there was a connection I still felt for her. And I was certain that her life and mine were stilldestined to intertwine in some way.
   Once we’d all unpacked and settled in, I turned on the family computer and checked my email, which had gone unread for a month now. And I quickly found a variety of messages waiting for me.
   Daniel welcomed me back and invited me to play basketball with them tomorrow, Sunday, assuming I could wake up in the morning after the long drive. Kenny Doyle forwarded me some chain letter explaining how Microsoft would give me thousands of dollars if only I forwarded along the email to all my friends. Lynne Arian just wanted to say hi. And Donna Kincaid wanted me to call her when I got home because she was horny and looking for a good time.
   Summer MacIntosh wrote to tell me she was thinking of me and how excited she was to make a fresh start at UCLA. Abbie and Allie Sanders wanted me to come visit them, explaining in carefully guarded words that what happened wasn’t entirely my fault and they still wanted to be friends. Cassidy O’Leary wrote that she urgently needed to talk to me as soon as I got home. And last but certainly not least, Megan Kwan wrote me a beautiful poem that talked of first love and destiny, and how everything worked out in the end once the protagonist went through his great trials.
   Even though some of the people I knew had graduated and moved on, many more remained. We had another year of school left and I knew my complex relationships with the girls still in my life had further development to come. Something told me my involvement with Keira McNeil had not yet run its course, nor my sexual liaisons with my two sisters and the inherent secrecy of those three relationships. And that didn’t even cover all the myriad new people I might meet on this adventure called Life.
   That night, as I sat up in bed staring at a picture of Dawn I’d placed on my nightstand, I sighed and felt the tug of loneliness pulling at my heart. Barely sixteen hours after being parted from her, I already felt the painful void inside me crying out for someone… anyone… to fill it. I couldn’t imagine going eleven months alone.
   As if on cue, my bedroom door opened then and a little sprite in a baggy T-shirt quietly hopped in and then joined me on the bed. Brooke’s smile was dazzling in the moonlight as she slid beneath the covers and cuddled herself up next to me, pulling my head down so that she could plant a firm kiss on my cheek. Instinctively, my arm wrapped around her, holding her close.
   “Miss her?” Brooke asked quietly while nodding towards the picture of Dawn.
   “Of course,” I sighed with infinite sorrow.
   “You’ll get through it,” she said encouragingly while sliding her hand over my bare chest. My own hand slid a little lower to cup Brooke’s tight little ass, and I found out that she was without panties beneath the baggy T-shirt. Brooke giggled and turned my head to plant the next kiss on mylips.
   Tomorrow is the first day of the rest of my life.

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/726778
