
   Gerry O'Hara
   Silver Serenade
 [Картинка: i_001.png] 

   The characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the author.
   Text copyright© 2012 Gerry O’Hara

   All rights reserved.

   No part of this book may be reproduced, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without express written permission of the publisher.
   Published by Montlake Romance

   P.O. Box 400818

   Las Vegas, NV 89140
   ISBN-13: 9781612186887

   ISBN-10: 1612186882
   Dedicated with affection to my grandchildren: John and Rachael, Christie Anne and Scott, Paige and Cooper, Sean and Casey, Danielle and Jacob, J.J., Parker, and Levi. You light up my life!

   CHAPTER ONE
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Standing outside courtroom three, Christie Hamilton shifted from one foot to the other. She swiped at a flyaway strand of hair that fell across her face as she bent her head to check her watch. She thought he would have shown up by now; court was due to convene in fifteen minutes.
   During the course of her career, people had come to her with their problems. She often resolved difficulties between partners, repaired broken trust in relationships, and exposed intricately planned deceptions.
   Christie was not an Ann Landers or Dear Abby—she was a highly regarded questioned document examiner. Christie was not a newcomer to superior court trials; she was often called to take the stand as an expert witness, as she was today, or called to a home or office to verify or dispute a signature, and the weight of her response lay heavily on her shoulders. Knowing that a misguided belief in a forgery could alter a person’s life, she helped untangle those mistakes.
   Christie anxiously glanced at her watch again; punctuality was ingrained in her character. A sound at the other end of the corridor caught her attention. A tall, athletically built man was barreling down the hall, surrounded by a phalanx of men and women attempting to keep up. Briefcases bounced against their hips and high-heeled shoes clattered like a stampeding herd of cattle.
   Christie recognized the man at the center of the whirlwind: it was Cash McCullough. She had seen him often in television interviews, and his photo appeared regularly in newspaper articles. In person the attorney was larger than in his pictures; he was a portrait of strength and vigor.
   She stepped forward to meet the approaching maelstrom.
   “Mr. McCullough—” The words seemed to be swallowed up in the eye of the storm. “Mr. McCullough!” She tried again to catch his attention. “I’m Christie Hamilton, the document examiner you hired to testify in this case.”
   With barely a flicker of name recognition and a quick hello, McCullough looped his arm around Christie’s and pulled her along. Caught off balance, she almost stumbled.
   At the entrance to the courtroom, the scene disassembled. One of the men gently tugged his jacket into place, another straightened his tie, while a woman pushed at a stray hair.
   McCullough grasped the large brass handle on the courtroom door and pulled it open. He nodded at Christie, then vanished inside with his entourage in hot pursuit.
   Christie sat down on a bench outside the courtroom and fought to regain her usual self-possession before being called to testify. McCullough’s energy had been contagious, pushing her heartbeat into a frenzy. She took a few deep breaths to slow it to a natural rhythm.
   Twenty minutes passed before a bailiff opened the door and motioned her inside. After she was sworn in, McCullough established her credentials. She placed her laptop on the table and plugged it into a projector. An enlarged photo of two documents, side by side, flashed onto a screen. Using a laser pointer, Christie began her testimony.
   “The handwriting in both documents appears to look the same”—she nodded toward the screen—“but there are differences.” The laser zipped around a half-dozen words. “Notice how the looped letters are almost closed in this sentence. But in the other document”—the laser flew to the second document and tap-danced along a string of words—“the loops are open. The ends of words have an upward slant in document one, while they almost imperceptibly turn down in document two. Although not discernible on the screen, close observation of the originals reveals that the writer of document one exerted more pressure on the pen.”
   “Your conclusion, Ms. Hamilton?” McCullough asked.
   “The documents were written by two different people.”
   After answering a few questions from the prosecutor, Christie took a seat a few rows behind McCullough and his assistants. It didn’t take long for her to understand why he had become a legend in the legal crowd. His assertive voice, strong good looks, and powerful demeanor commanded the courtroom. Utilizing Christie’s testimony, he deftly laid out the proof that his client had not signed the document in question.
   It took less than an hour for the jury to rule in the defendant’s favor.Another success for McCullough, another notch on his belt, she mused, as she picked up her computer case and left the courtroom.
   As she walked down the hall, she heard McCullough’s cowboy boots clunking behind her. He called to her to wait. Catching up, he slipped his arm through hers and they continued on.
   “You handled yourself well, Christie. Certainly made my job easier.”
   “Thank you.” She turned to look at him. His wavy, sandy hair spilled to the edge of his collar. His face was tanned, and his eyes shone like polished agates. A hint of a dimple punctuated the corner of his mouth as it curved into an economical semismile, but was almost canceled by the assertivethrust of an angular jaw.
   The attorney exuded magnetism and she was drawn into his field. He shook Christie’s hand and his grip was warm. “I’d like to call on you again,” he said. Before she could reply, McCullough released her hand, nodded good-bye, and strode away. She watched as he quickened his steps to catch up with his team.
   Christie knew that McCullough was one of the best criminal defense attorneys in Northern California. When he had called to ask her to test a couple of signatures for a case he was working on, she had taken it in stride. When he followed up with a request for her to be an expert witness in the trial, she had been a bit intimidated by the magnitude of his reputation. Now, having met him, she realized that it wasn’t only his reputation as an attorney that had just thrown her off-center, it was also his ruggedly handsome looks.
   After a thirty-minute cable-car ride, Christie walked into her apartment. She was greeted by a loud meow as a white-and-tan calico cat trotted to the entry. The cat rubbed against her legs, its tail wrapping possessively around her ankles. Christie bent over and swooped the cat into her arms.
   “I don’t know what you’re complaining about. At least you had lunch; I went without.” She nuzzled the cat’s soft fur before putting it down in front of a half-empty dish of kibble. She reached into the cupboard and pulled out a can of Friskies. Stripping the lid off the can, she lopped a large spoonful of the treat into the cat’s dish, then filled a kettle with water and put it on the stove for tea.
   “You always come first, don’t you, sweet Tosha?” she said affectionately. She slipped a frozen dinner into the microwave while the teakettle screamed its readiness.
   After dinner Christie curled up on the couch with Tosha contentedly sleeping on her lap. Relaxed, she mused over the afternoon. Observing Cash McCullough’s defense strategy had been exhilarating. He had a flair for working juries; when he spoke they listened. She wondered if the western tailoring of his suit and the Justin Boots were a facade. Juries undoubtedly ate it up, thinking he was a country boy who had made good in the big city.
   Christie was no novice to courtroom tactics. McCullough’s technique was impressive, as was his obvious self-assurance. She was convinced he did not rely on the vagaries of a jury to win acquittal for his clients. He won his cases by attention to detail combined with a skillful examination of witnesses.
   A few of his cases had been rather notorious and he had received mixed press, some hailing him as a champion of the underdog, others crying foul, and stronger. Whatever reaction he provoked, he was never boring.
   She had spent hardly more than an hour in the courtroom and only five minutes in McCullough’s company. Yet that brief contact had left her not only in awe of his talent, but also with a desire to know him better.
   During the past several years, there had been little opportunity for her to meet or date interesting men. She had focused on her career and channeled all of her energy into establishing herself as a questioned document examiner. Many other professionals in her field were self-taught, serving an apprenticeship before working independently. Christie’s training was outstanding. During her final year at San José State University, she enrolled in a course on document examination. An elective in the Criminal Justice Department, it was taught by an extremely knowledgeable professor with many years of professional as well as classroom experience.
   When he recommended her for a highly regarded document examiner’s course in Washington, DC, Christie hadn’t hesitated. Returning to the Bay Area with skills honed to a degree of sharpness that could be surpassed by few, if any, of her peers, she apprenticed in a bank, examining signatures on canceled checks, and moonlighted scrutinizing wills. She had uncovered a few skillfully crafted fraudulent wills by determining the age of the paper that was utilized.
   Three years ago she began working with Gates Investigative Agency as an independent contractor. The move provided career recognition. Although most cases were channeled through Tom Gates, she also received referrals from bank managers and attorneys. Many cases were routine, but there were enough challenging projects to excite her interest. Testifying for McCullough had provided a stimulating break from her usual schedule.
   A week after the trial, Christie was peering through a desktop magnifier at a pair of ragged documents when she received a call from Cash McCullough. He asked her to stop by his office as soon as possible to discuss another case. When she suggested an appointment later in the week, he impressed on her the urgency of the matter and she agreed to see him at noon.
   McCullough’s office was in a fashionable glass-and-steel building on Market Street. Christie took an elevator to the twelfth floor and walked down a plushly carpeted corridor to his suite. A receptionist greeted her and instructed her to go right in.
   McCullough’s private office was generously proportioned. The deep glow of cherry paneling was accented by a Native American rug, a dramatic oil painting of the California coast, and an antique Wells Fargo clock. A leather couch faced a floor-to-ceiling bookcase crammed with law books. Street noises hummed through a tall window.
   McCullough was seated in an oak-and-leather swivel chair, with a phone pressed to his ear. Suddenly the telephone receiver hit the cradle and the chair snapped upright.
   “Christie! I appreciate your coming.” McCullough stood with hand outstretched to shake hers. His grip was strong, his hand warm. “I’m looking into the possibility of a forged document as a favor to a longtime friend,” he said. “His father-in-law disappeared a year ago after a dispute over control of the family business. They haven’t communicated with each other since the argument. My friends, Hal and his wife, Margo, live in Arizona. Yesterday morning they got a call from their stockbroker. He had received instructions from Margo’s father, Elliot Parker, to sell a large block of company stock and to send a cashier’s check to a post office box in Marin. The broker thought that rather odd, so he called Hal.”
   “I don’t understand the problem,” she said.
   “Hal believes the letter is a forgery. His father-in-law holds a majority stake in the company, and Hal finds it hard to believe he would relinquish that power.”
   “But if Mr. Parker left the company under unfriendly terms, perhaps he no longer feels any ties to the company,” Christie suggested.
   “That’s possible, but Hal insists on following up. I told him about you, and he had the broker overnight-express the letter and a copy of Elliot’s signature card, along with a note Elliot wrote to Margo when she was in college. I’m hoping that is enough documentation for you to do a comparison of the writing.”
   “It should be.”
   “There’s a time factor here. The broker can’t hold up the sell order more than a day or two. Can you meet that time frame?” Cash picked up a trio of papers clipped together and passed them across the desk.
   Christie removed the paper clip and looked at the writing on each page. A quick survey indicated similarities, as well as possible differences. The signatures on the letters closely resembled the signature card. Of course, an experienced forger’s work would be hard to discern with a cursory glance.
   “Why don’t we discuss this over lunch?”
   Before she had a chance to answer, Cash came around his desk and took her arm. He steered her out of the office and mumbled their destination to his receptionist as they exited. Outside, he hailed a cab and gave the driver a Fisherman’s Wharf address. Before she knew it, they were seated in a nondescript café overlooking San Francisco Bay. Christie suspected Cash patronized the restaurant because it suited his restless energy—only minutes after they ordered, a lunch tray was delivered to the table.
   “Hal and I were best buddies growing up,” Cash said. “And we were roommates at Stanford. Margo was the proverbial girl next door. We were a threesome, and we spent a great deal of time at Margo’s house. The Parkers were my second family. Mrs. Parker died about two years ago. Cancer. It devastated Elliot. He became a lost soul, withdrawn and isolated. Margo and Hal tried to console him, but to no avail.”
   “Losing a spouse is life-altering, but it must have been hard on his daughter as well. I’d be devastated if anything happened to my parents.”
   “Yes, it hit Margo hard, but she tried to be strong for her father. Elliot was the CEO of Parker Electronics. After his wife died, he couldn’t concentrate on work. Every decision had to have his approval, and in his emotional state, that could take days or weeks. The company began losing contracts. Hal tried to convince Elliot to take a leave of absence, but he wouldn’t step down even temporarily. Eventually the board of directors voted to oust Elliot. Hal became the new CEO, and a family battle ensued. It was nasty.”
   Christie nodded; combining family and business could have disastrous results.
   “Elliot was angry and hurt, and he wasn’t thinking straight. He considered himself a victim, and he cast Hal as the bad guy. He swore never to see Hal and Margo again. True to his word, they haven’t seen or heard from him since. The situation has torn Margo apart. She’s loyal to her husband, but she also loves her father.
   “It’s ironic. Hal pleaded with the board on Elliot’s behalf. He suggested they give Elliot a sabbatical to put his life back in order, but the board refused.”
   “Where is Elliot now?”
   “No one knows. The really sad part is that Margo is pregnant and Elliot doesn’t even know that he is going to be a grandfather.”
   “First he loses his wife, then his daughter, now a grandchild? What a tragedy,” Christie said. “It sounds like his golden years are far from golden.”
   “Elliot is a good man, but he is stubborn and he has allowed emotion to cloud his thinking. Truthfully, I expect you will find that the broker’s letter is genuine.”
   Cash became quiet, turning his gaze to the bay and a fleet of boats gliding across the water, sails billowing as they heeled in the wind. For the first time since they’d met, he appeared relaxed. The only indication that he was not completely at ease was a muscle throbbing at his neck.
   “If the results of your examination show that Elliot, indeed, ordered the transaction, I’ll fly to Arizona and break the news to Hal and Margo.”
   An hour later, Christie was back at her desk. She had agreed to have a report on Elliot’s signature by midmorning the following day. She spent the rest of the afternoon studying the Parker documents. Using a precision microscope, she carefully examined the handwriting, measuring a sampling of letters on each page to an invisible but arbitrary line. In the correspondence to the stockbroker, she noted, some words drifted above the imaginary line. She studied and compared the shadings, angles, and loops that formed the words, and the pressure exerted by the pen. Finished, she pushed the microscope away and rubbed her eyes with the backs of her hands. The examination indicated that Elliot’s letter was genuine.
   Her eyes were tearing from the close work and she decided to call it a day. Two blocks from the office, she swung onto a cable car. It was already filled nearly to capacity. Like a child, Christie reveled in being allotted an outer slot in the open-air vehicle. Hanging onto a handgrip, she leaned her body slightly outward. She smiled at a passenger seated in front of her—cradled in the woman’s arms, like a newborn baby, was a loaf of sourdough bread, bundled in a blanket of white paper.
   The conductor yanked the car’s bell cord rhythmically as they crossed an intersection. Christie suspected that he had a love affair with the clanging melody, breaking into a rambunctious tune at the slightest provocation.
   She held her breath on a steep downhill run. The cable car ground along its track stoically, bell clanging loudly, proclaiming success in the alpine descent. Reaching her drop-off point, Christie walked the few blocks to her apartment.
   Her living room was cozy, furnished casually and comfortably in blue and yellow, her favorite colors. She walked to the fireplace and switched on the gas log to chase away the early-spring evening’s chill. After checking the cat’s dish, she put the teakettle on the stove and waited for its shrill whistle.
   A few minutes later, she brewed a cup of peppermint tea and returned to the living room. Tosha danced in front of her until Christie sat down and spread a blue afghan that her mother had crocheted across her lap. The cat jumped up and snuggled into the ripples of wool.
   Warm and content, Christie was planning to feast on leftover Chinese takeout. Before she had a chance to retrieve and microwave the carton, the phone rang. She lifted the receiver and Cash’s voice boomed across the line. Startled by the sound, Tosha scurried off her lap.
   Thinking Cash had called about the Parker documents, she said,“I told you I would have the report to your office tomorrow morning, Cash. I can tell you now, though, that I’m ninety-nine percent sure the request sent to the broker is genuine.”
   “Hmm. Hal isn’t going to like that. But that isn’t why I called. I need a favor. I have to attend a bar association meeting tonight. One of those obligatory dinners with a boring speaker. I thought if you would accompany me, I might not fall asleep in my soup.”
   “I don’t think I can be ready on such short notice.”
   “If you’re worried about what to wear, it’s definitely not black tie. And it will be an opportunity for you to make some business contacts. How about it? Can I pick you up at seven?”
   Christie sensed that it would be useless to protest. Besides, a few new contacts would be good for business. She gave him her address.
   She slid the afghan from her lap, folded it, and placed it on the back of the couch. She stood and stretched, shaking her hands over her head in an attempt to loosen the muscles that had suddenly bunched tightly across her shoulders. She tried to blame the physical tension on a busy day at work, but knew that wasn’t true.
   A brisk shower drove away a portion of her nervousness. An evening out with Cash! What had she been thinking to have accepted the invitation? Business dinner or not, the thought of being with him left her frazzled. He kept intruding on her thoughts, and she could not shake the attraction that drew her to him in a far from businesslike way.
   She slipped on a soft blue knit dress that invariably boosted her self-confidence and stepped into strappy black heels, a splurge that her friend Kathleen had talked her into. She checked her reflection in the mirror and was satisfied with her appearance. Her honey-colored hair had not resisted the urgings of the hot brush and fell in soft waves. The dress accented her slender five-foot-four frame, and the color complemented her azure eyes. Glancing at her watch, she was relieved to see that she had twenty minutes to compose herself before Cash arrived.
   Five minutes later the doorbell rang. He was early; she had underestimated his vibrant energy and impatience. A momentary sense of panic engulfed her and she fought to slow her racing heartbeat. She tried to convince herself that her reaction was ridiculous. She was a mature woman capable of dining with an associate. But why did it feel as though a swarm of butterflies was fluttering in her stomach?
   She opened the door and Cash walked into the apartment, somehow filling it with his presence. He looked handsome in a slate-gray suit accented by a frost-colored shirt and contrasting dark-blue tie. Christie realized that no matter what she tried to tell herself, this was not going to be a simple business dinner. Cash’s glance assessed the apartment, observing Christie’s preference for country oak. A large oil painting of two children on a park swing created a focal point in the room.
   He switched his attention to Christie, his gaze touching and appraising every inch of her body. She had the dizzying feeling that she was on the witness stand and was about to say something outrageous and discredit herself.
   “Do I pass?” she asked curtly, annoyed that he could make her uncomfortable.
   “If I were handing out grades, you would get an A for your excellent taste in decorating.” He moved a step closer. “And you would definitely go to the head of the class for the way you look.”
   “You look rather nice yourself,” she said.
   He met her words with apparent nonchalance and Christie perceived that he was accustomed to compliments and took it in stride.
   Tosha appeared to be appraising Cash. She wasn’t accustomed to having men invade her domain. Finally, she turned away, and with her tail straight in the air, the tip fluttering slightly, she haughtily padded into the bedroom.
   “I don’t think your cat likes me.”
   “Tosha doesn’t warm up to strangers too quickly.”
   “I hope I won’t be a stranger for long,” he said.
   She wondered how much truth was in his words.
   Once they were outside, Christie looked up and down the street for his car, but no expensive vehicles were parked at the curb.
   “Here we are.” Cash took her elbow and swung open the door of a gunmetal-gray SUV. “Surprised?” he asked, his mouth curving into a crooked grin.
   “I’ll admit I expected a flashy sports car. You know, something bearing the name of a trendy town in Italy or a fast racecourse in France.”
   Cash slid behind the wheel and turned to face her.“Does an SUV tarnish my image?”
   “Not at all. A vehicle named after a town in the Old West goes with your cowboy boots.”
   Cash laughed.“I’ll bet you have an answer for everything. I should have warned you, I’m not one for frills. A four-wheel drive is suited to the desert and mountain driving that I do.”
   “My car is ten years old, so this is a step up for me.”
   He smiled and his tanned face looked younger and less lined than before.Score one point for me, Christie thought.
   At the hotel an attendant took charge of the SUV and Christie and Cash hurried through the lobby.
   Christie scanned the elegantly appointed dining room.“Are we late?” she asked. “Almost everyone is seated. Or do they skip the cocktail hour at these functions?”
   “No. I make it a point not to arrive early. Nothing much is accomplished before dinner. People haven’t had time to unwind from the day’s work; they’re uptight and not too receptive to listening to someone else’s viewpoint. After a pleasurable meal, they’re relaxed and in a good mood. That’s the time to strike.”
   “Can’t you simply enjoy a round of pleasant conversation before dinner? I don’t mean to sound judgmental, but analyzing your associates seems manipulative.”
   “I’m sorry you see it that way, but time is my most valuable commodity. Besides”—he lowered his voice to a conspiratorial whisper—“I’m not good at small talk.”
   “I don’t think I believe that.”
   Cash grinned, and then took Christie’s arm and led her to the dais.
   “How do we rate seats at the head table?” she asked.
   “I’m the guest speaker.”
   “Why didn’t you tell me?”
   “Would it have made a difference?”
   “No…well, yes. When you called, you made it sound like a spur-of-the-moment invitation. And that line about saving you from boredom?”
   “I confess—guilty as charged. Your beauty drove me to unconscionable lengths to get a date.”
   “Well, put that way, what can I say?” But she did wonder. She could not believe that he had to resort to a last-minute date.
   He had timed their arrival so precisely that, almost on cue, the rest of the guests sat down and a horde of waiters began racing between tables, rattling plates as they served the first course.
   Christie became engaged in conversation with the dinner guest on her left, a pleasant older man who specialized in corporate law. He told her his passion was racehorses, and that he owned four of them. When he wasn’t involved in a major case, he breezed his favorite horse around the workout track. “It’s exhilarating to fly like the wind,” he told her.
   In her periphery, Christie saw that the woman sitting on Cash’s right had engaged him in a one-sided conversation. She was chattering nonstop. It was amusing to see that he had so little control over the discussion—a first for him, she guessed. When the woman finally wound down, Cash turned to Christie. She tried to conceal a smile that was tugging at her lips.
   “Don’t you dare laugh,” he whispered. Then, changing to a normal tone, he asked about the Parker case. “Is there room for doubt concerning Elliot’s letter?”
   “Not really. Both documents were written by the same person. I imagine the main reason the letter was in question was because in the broker’s letter the words tended to ‘float’ instead of being in a straight line, as in Margo’s letter. But everything else matched. The floating can be interpreted as an indication that Elliot is not totally in touch or comfortable with his current life situation.”
   “What makes you say that?”
   “I briefly studied how to analyze a person’s character and personality through his or her handwriting. It’s amazing what you can learn about people from their handwriting.”
   “This was a college course?” She heard doubt in his voice.
   “No, I took private lessons. One morning I caught a TV talk show, and the guest speaker was a graphoanalyst. Her expertise was called upon when employers were interviewing applicants for upper-level positions. She said that through handwriting analysis she could determine characteristics that were beneficial or detrimental to a prospective employee’s career path. Risk taking, how well-adjusted the individual was, and the propensity toward orderly work skills were a few of the characteristics she dug out of writing samples. I was fascinated, so I spent the summer taking classes from her.
   “When the fall semester began, I didn’t pursue the subject, because it would have taken too much time away from my other studies. I don’t go on record with character or personality judgments, but I’m willing to stick my neck out on this one. The unruly writing line fits an easily identifiable profile point. Other aspects of a person’s handwriting are not as obvious. My expertise is limited.”
   “Quite a step up from reading palms.”
   “I know that some people think handwriting analysis is a bunch of hocus-pocus, but my teacher claimed she was on target with most of her appraisals. It was an intriguing course and melded well with my profession, even though the skill is only for my personal knowledge. In Elliot Parker’s case, it explains the discrepancy in the writing.”
   “Margo was ambivalent about the broker’s letter. I think she wanted it to be from her dad, because then she would at least know that he was all right. You know how it is with pregnant women.”
   Christie raised her eyebrows.“No, I don’t know.”
   Cash glanced at her and smiled.“Sensitive. They’re sensitive. At least that’s what my sister Patty told me. She has two children, so she knows firsthand.” He smiled. “Cute kids, Sara and Melissa,” he added.
   So he had a sister and two nieces. He had mentioned his sister with affection. Were they close? She had begun to believe he lived an insular life, his career being foremost. Now she knew differently. What else did he keep hidden?
   Not that she expected him to lay his personal life out for scrutiny. They were, after all, only business associates, and she had no right to pry. No one completely opens themself up to another person, anyway. There were private spaces in her own life that she did not share: hurts, disappointments, yearnings, bumps along the way in her quest to reach recognition in her field.
   During college she had been driven to get the best marks, to study with the experts whenever the opportunity occurred, and there had been little time for a social life. Then she’d met Matt. He was a criminal justice major, too, and was considering law school. They spoke the same language: law and its ramifications. Many evenings were spent discussing the latest media cases and analyzing police reports.
   Soon she was falling in love. Then one night they fought about her enrollment in the special course in Washington. Ten weeks was too long to be away, he told her. She was leaving him in the lurch. Didn’t she care about their relationship?
   Of course she cared. But what she would learn in DC would place her among the elite in her field. She didn’t want to merely be good at her profession; she wanted to be the best.
   “I’ll bet you don’t know anyone outside of your class who has ever heard of a questioned document examiner,” he’d said. “You’re not going to be part of the legal community; you’re going to be hidden away in the back room of a bank, checking signatures, stuck in a dead-end job.”
   The next day he tried to apologize, but the hurt was too deep. Christie realized that he had meant every word, and was only sorry that he had verbalized his opinion.
   A few weeks later, she was off to DC. The course was exciting, the classes were intense, and Matt, well, Matt was history. His defection was six years ago and it still remained a thorny issue.
   “You’re so quiet. What are you thinking about?”
   “Nothing, nothing that would interest you.”
   He leaned closer.“On the contrary, everything about you interests me.”
   This was definitely not business conversation. Business conversation wouldn’t make her flesh tingle, or cause a rush of warmth to spread through her body.
   “I’ll tell you what. If we leave right after my talk, we can have a nightcap at my place.”
   Christie was momentarily speechless.“What about those contacts we were going to make?”
   “Just a tiny drink?” Cash pressed thumb and forefinger together to emphasize his words.
   “I have to be up early to type the report on Elliot Parker’s handwriting.”
   Cash tilted his head and his boyish grin teased her. She felt her resolve slipping. What harm could there be in accepting a nightcap?
   CHAPTER TWO
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   They left the hotel and drove across the Golden Gate Bridge into Sausalito. Christie’s curiosity was piqued when Cash turned the SUV into a parking lot along the wharf. A grin appeared on his face.
   “Did I mention that I live on a sailboat? I hope you don’t get seasick.”
   “A surprise a minute,” Christie said as she unbuckled her seat belt.
   Ankle-high lights splashed a yellow glow across the weathered dock. The only sound accompanying their footsteps on the rough wooden planks was the rhythmic heaving of boats rocking in time to the waves. A distant motorboat skimmed across the slate-gray water; the blur of its running lights resembled a shooting star.
   They stopped at the last slip. Moonlight etched silver shadows across a large sailboat with the nameSerenade painted across the bow. It didn’t take a seaman’s knowledge to appreciate the forty-two-foot sloop’s trim lines.
   The lazily moving boat did not appear to offer firm footing, and Christie was hesitant about going on board. The ease with which Cash bridged the space between boat and dock did not alter her anxiety.
   “Don’t be frightened. Slip off your shoes and give them to me.” Christie removed the heels and stood, uncertainly, in her stocking feet. Cash stashed her shoes and reached for her hands. He held them in a firm grip while she hopped onto the boat’s deck. She landed against him and he smoothed the hair away from her face and tipped her chin upward. Looking into his eyes was like being zapped by a live wire—being too close could be lethal. She slipped her hands out of his grasp, planted her palms against his chest, and eased away.
   She became aware of the intensity of his gaze, and the hair at the nape of her neck rose as though brushed with static electricity. Her breath caught in her throat and she was engulfed with apprehension. It had been naive to accept an invitation for a nightcap.
   Cash wrapped an arm around her waist to guide her along the deck. Although he was assisting her in maintaining her physical balance, he threw her emotions off-kilter.
   Entering the salon, he switched on a table lamp, illuminating a comfortable room outfitted in tweed, oak, and brass. He walked to a small Swedish fireplace and turned on the gas logs. The golden flames danced in the grate and cast flickering shadows on the teak walls. He put a CD on the stereo and the salon was filled with the soothing sounds of Kenny G.
   “Wine?” he asked.
   “Vintage wine, mood music, the sea, and firelight. Quite a love nest.”
   “You forgot the most important element: a beautiful woman.”
   Her heartbeat accelerated.“Almost sounds like a prelude to making a pass.”
   “Would you object?
   “Yes, I would.”
   “Whatever you say.” Cash handed her a glass of wine. “I don’t want to ruin the evening by overstepping the boundaries. Sit down and tell me about yourself. What made you decide to become a document examiner?”
   “I was intrigued by a case in the news about a woman who was instrumental in uncovering a major fraud scheme. She was a questioned document examiner, and without her expertise, a dozen grandmotherly ladies would have been robbed of their life savings. I could not get the case out of my mind and Irealized that I wanted to follow the same career path. This sounds corny, but I wanted to make a difference. And being able to authenticate or dispute a document’s validity gave me that opportunity.” She took a sip of wine. “Now it’s my turn to ask a question: Why do you live on a boat? Surely you can afford a house or condo in the city.”
   “I’m on a hectic schedule, and I admit to being a workaholic. I start early and finish late. My only source of relaxation is sailing. Water is my element and living on a boat provides instant access to the sea.”
   Christie could visualize him standing on the deck, clad in short trunks, his tanned, muscled body glistening with a diamond spray of water. It was a disconcerting picture.
   She put down her wineglass and stood up.“I’d better be on my way or I might be tempted to play hooky tomorrow.” She hoped she had achieved a light enough tone. She did not want Cash to sense the effect he had on her.
   “Why the turnaround? Did I say something to disturb you?”
   Christie became aware that he was standing too close, but she could not dredge up the strength to back away. He reached to touch her shoulders and his breath whispered across her face. She was on dangerous ground.
   “If you don’t take me home immediately, I won’t have the energy to record the Parker documents for your friends tomorrow.”
   Cash’s smile was thin, his smoky gaze indefinable. “You’re right, I should get you home.”
   At her apartment door, Cash’s farewell did not hold the slightest suggestion of his earlier flirtation.
   Christie put a kettle of water on the stove before slipping off her clothes and wrapping herself in a bathrobe. Tosha had been sleeping on the bed and she lifted her head for only a moment. It was obviously past the cat’s bedtime, and she merely gave a soft meow to acknowledge her human roommate.
   Christie’s bristling tension indicated that sleep would be elusive, so, settling on the couch, she attempted to relax, but thoughts of Cash disrupted her concentration. It was impossible to bring a semblance of calm to her mind and body.
   A piercing whistle made her leap to her feet and race into the kitchen. She fixed a cup of hot chocolate and returned to the living room, where she sank onto the couch and tucked her legs underneath her. While she sipped the hot chocolate, her thoughts returned to Cash.
   Why was she attracted to him? She admired his courtroom skills, that was true, but there were other talented men in her circle, good-looking ones, too. None had stirred her emotions. Why was Cash different? Perhaps part of the draw was the mix of sensitivity she perceived when he spoke of his family and friends, and his go-get-’em assertiveness. And his easy compliments made her feel good about herself.
   She did not have any compunction about dating within her profession. Being in business for herself put her and Cash on equal footing. Still, if things got heavy and then went wrong, it would be uncomfortable for them to work together. And she needed all the clients she could get.
   Sighing over unresolved conflicts, she set the empty cup and saucer in the kitchen sink and went to bed. She turned out the light and Tosha roused herself long enough to snuggle against the backs of Christie’s knees.
   At the office the following morning, she printed copies of Elliot Parker’s letters, which she had scanned into the computer and enlarged the day before. She spread the papers across the desk and marked each one to indicate similarities in the writing. The notations corresponded to documentation in her report.
   A little before noon she arrived at Cash’s office. He was on the phone, and he signaled her to sit down. She placed the report on her lap and pretended to study it so that it would not appear that she was eavesdropping.
   Cash was arguing about a client’s rights being violated and his commanding tone of voice indicated that someone in the district attorney’s office was probably on the other end of the line.
   “You know the rules, Russ. If we agree to have my client take a lie-detector test, it will be administered in my office, not downtown with your boys. I’m not fool enough to toss him into a lion’s den with an intimidating police polygraph technician!” Cash ran a finger inside his shirt collar, loosening his tie into lopsided disarray. “You’re darn right you’ll probably never see the results. I’m not on your team. My only concern is my client’s welfare. Nothing more to talk about, Russ. Good-bye.”
   Returning the receiver to its cradle, Cash turned his attention to Christie, then self-consciously tried to repair the alignment of his tie.
   “You don’t have to tidy up for me.” She smiled. “I’m only going to be a minute. I brought the report on Elliot Parker’s handwriting.”
   She leaned across the desk to give Cash the folder, and he made a quick move to receive it. Their foreheads almost collided, and Christie was jolted by the zesty aroma of Chaps or Stetson, or some such scent that accompanied boots and cowboy hats. She jerked away and the edge of the seat jabbed the backs of her knees. Tottering precariously, she tilted forward to regain her balance. Reaching for the desktop in an effort to gain purchase, her fingers splayed across the oak. Her hands rested on the flat surface while she caught her breath, and then tried to reseat herself with aplomb.
   “What was that all about?” Cash asked. His grin was a concession to an obvious struggle to repress laughter.
   “My heel caught in the rug.”
   Cash looked down at the floor and Christie understood the transparency of her white lie: the Berber carpet was so tightly woven it would accommodate even the worst klutz’s misstep.
   “Aren’t you going to at least scan the report? You appeared anxious to receive it as soon as possible.”
   “Hey, take it easy.I didn’t trip you.”
   “I told you…”
   “Your heel, yes, of course.”
   “I’m sticking to my story.” She smiled, acknowledging the humor in the mishap.
   Cash sat down, removed the papers from the folder and quietly read them. When he was finished, he formed a steeple with his fingers. He studied the structure before addressing Christie.
   “I don’t know how Hal and Margo are going to receive this information. I’m going to phone them, wind up a few other things, and then call it a day. Why don’t you join me in a sail? I’ll even throw in dinner.”
   An instant replay of the previous night’s electric current flashed through Christie’s mind. She could not underestimate the emotional risk she would face on board Cash’s boat, even if he was busy hauling sails and manning the wheel. But she wanted to be with him, so why refuse?
   “It sounds like fun,” she said, knowing that was an understatement. “I’ll wait for you downstairs in the coffee shop. I could use an afternoon shot of caffeine.”
   Thirty minutes later they were on the road to the marina.
   “This vehicle does suit you, Cash,” Christie said.
   “What brings you to that conclusion?”
   “The interior is so masculine. A sports car would be almost feminine in comparison to the steel and saddle leather of this baby. You drive like you’re riding herd on cattle. A cowboy belt with a silver trophy buckle would make the picture complete.”
   “If it would enhance my image, I’m sure I can find just the thing tucked away in the dark recesses of a footlocker onSerenade.”
   “I have no doubt.”
   Traffic was stalled on the Golden Gate Bridge. The cars inched along at a snail’s pace and Cash impatiently drummed his fingers on the steering wheel.
   “Would you consider it rude if I make a business call while we’re trapped in this bottleneck?”
   “Not at all.”
   “Whenever my schedule allows, I take the ferry into the city. It’s better than getting caught up in this mess.”
   He spoke some numbers into his cell phone and in a few seconds a man’s voice answered. Christie turned toward the side window, attempting to look disinterested in the conversation. When she heard him ask, “Where did you locate him?” she assumed he was talking to a private investigator. The call ended a couple of minutes later.
   “You could teach time management, Cash. Most drivers would have switched on the radio or inserted a CD for diversion. You weren’t kidding when you said you were a workaholic. You’re going to have an ulcer before you reach forty.”Or a heart attack, she thought glumly.
   “Don’t worry. I thrive on work.”
   They reached Sausalito and Cash swung the SUV into the marina’s parking lot. Christie noticed a transformation take place. His shoulders loosened and his grip on the steering wheel was no longer white-knuckle tight. He was home, and true to his word, water was his element.
   On boardSerenade he hurled directions at her, and she was pleased to be able to follow them with a minimum of bungling. Working together, it didn’t take much time to raise the mainsail and ready the jib.
   “We make a good team,” Cash remarked as he fired the diesel engine and motored the boat out of the harbor. “You’ll find a couple of jackets inside the cabin. Slip one on. The wind is coming up; it’s going to be cold on the bay.”
   Christie shrugged into a bright-yellow windbreaker, much too large to fit attractively, but she was not going to ignore his warning about the cold air. When they passed the buoy marker, Cash switched off the engine and raised the jib sail. The boat responded to the urging of the wind and heeled sharply.
   “We’re going to tip over!” she screamed.
   Cash reached for her and slipped his free arm around her waist.“This baby can lean even more without taking on a drop of water, but if you’re nervous, I can adjust the sails so she’ll flatten out. It will slow us down, though.”
   “And you prefer speed. I don’t want to be a spoilsport.”
   “That’s the proper attitude. Anyway, I’ll protect you.” He squeezed her more tightly into the curve of his arm until her head rested on his chest, and he leaned so that his chin grazed the top of her head.
   She squirmed out of his grip.“I think I’ll be safer taking my chances with the pitch of the boat.”
   He grinned.“What are you worried about?”
   “Nothing. I think I may be better off watching out for myself.”
   “Ouch! That smarts. I only want to hold onto you until you get your sea legs.”
   He pulled her to him, and this time she did not resist. The outspoken way they were discussing the developing tension simply heightened it for her. A tremor whipped through her; his grip was not protective, not in the sense she needed. He might prevent her from taking a tumble as the boat shot through the water, but the greater risk was in falling headlong into a heated infatuation with him.
   “We’re coming about.” Cash released her and simultaneously navigated the mainsail and wheel. The bow cut a smooth arc in response to the maneuver and they headed toward the other side of the bay.
   He was completely at ease atSerenade’s helm. He shed the role of high-powered attorney and became a casual sailor enjoying an afternoon cruise. His mouth curved into a contented smile and the earlier dynamic attitude was absent from his posture.
   A flight of pelicans swooped overhead and Christie watched the leader dive-bomb into the water. She kept her gaze on the ripples that fanned into a myriad of circles where the bird shattered the water’s surface. But concentrating on seabirds did not distract her from Cash’s proximity.
   The sail began luffing vigorously and Cash cranked the winch a half turn to correct the flapping. His jacket was unzipped and she could see the muscles on his chest expand like a weight lifter’s.
   Serenade ran before the wind, picking up speed and leaving the pelicans behind. The wake spilled into a frothyV.
   “How do you like it?” he asked.
   “It’s great.”
   “Now do you trust me?”
   A shiver crept along her spine.“What do you mean?”
   “About the boat not capsizing.”
   She nodded. Trusting him as an accomplished skipper was one thing. Trusting him not to scramble her emotions was another.
   Cash tipped his head to the side.“That’s not what you’re concerned with right now, is it?”
   “Answering that question could get me into trouble.”
   “If you won’t talk, there are other means of communication.”
   His mouth brushed the side of her face. Startled, she stepped away. He reached for the lapels on her jacket and brought her back to him. The air whipped her hair and the taste of salt was on her tongue. The heat of his hand tracing the outline of her face was like a dynamite charge, and her earlier chill flew away. She was prepared for the kiss that was sure to come.
   The boat suddenly rocked precariously. The sails snapped like rifle shots and the boom shuddered.Serenade lurched and Christie lost her footing. Cash held her arm to prevent her from falling against the gunwale.
   “We’ve lost the wind.” His voice was husky. “If I don’t concentrate on skippering this baby, we’ll end up on the rocks. Hold the wheel steady while I trim the sails.”
   He cranked the winches until the jib and mainsail had the proper alignment and the boat slipped into the breeze once more. After he took over the helm,Serenade gathered speed. Christie gripped the deck railing, more to steady her nerves than her body.
   Approaching the harbor, Cash dropped the jib, pulled in the mainsail, and switched to diesel.Serenade coasted until it neared the dock. Cash maneuvered the boat into its slip, then jumped onto the dock and wrapped the lines around cleats.
   Back on board, he lashed the boom to the stern cleats. Christie helped haul the sails and sheath them in blue-canvas covers. She responded to his instructions slowly, dexterity gone; her fingers were cold and her nerve endings raw.
   “I told you I’d include dinner in the evening cruise,” he reminded her. “How about Houlihan’s?”
   “You mean you’re not going to play chef and demonstrate the efficiency of that copper galley?” she teased.
   “If you’d rather…”
   “I’m kidding. Houlihan’s sounds great.”
   “And provides neutral ground?” He chucked her under the chin and a mischievous glint sparkled in his eyes.
   “I thought you were an attorney, not a psychic.” A restaurant was definitely safer than the privacy of a small cabin and the intimacy of candlelight.
   “I’d prefer a cozy scene onSerenade, but I don’t want to spook you.”
   “You don’t want to spook me? Or the cupboard is bare?”
   A flush crossed his face.
   “You’re terrible.” Christie shook her head. “Trying to soften me up with a pretense of considering my feelings, when in reality you don’t have the wherewithal for a love tryst.”
   “Guilty as charged. Let’s get a table at Houlihan’s before I change my mind and make a quick stop at a Speedy Mart.”
   They walked across the wharf to the restaurant. The hostess’s effusive greeting intimated that Cash was a regular customer. Without delay she led them to a booth overlooking the water and the San Francisco skyline on the far side of the bay.
   The decor was nostalgic. Decades-old photographs of movie stars, athletes, and advertising slogans covered the walls. A hand-carved carousel horse, its paint chipped and faded, was perched on a brick divider surrounded by cascades of greenery. The room vaguely resembled a cluster of garden gazebos.
   “The size of this menu is staggering,” Christie said.
   “The Polynesian kabob is always a good choice.”
   “You saved my life! I thought I’d die of starvation before I could decide what to have.”
   Cash shook his head.“You are one crazy lady.”
   Christie was determined to keep the conversation light. They ordered dinner and a carafe of wine. Ten minutes later, the waitress brought the wine and salads.
   “How long have you been sailing, Cash?”
   “Since I was a kid. We lived near a lake, and my dad was an avid sailor. On vacations we trailered our boat to the coast. You know how ranchers put their kids on a horse before they can walk? My dad had me hauling sails while I was still in diapers. At least, that’s the story my mother tells.
   “Besides recreational sailing, my dad and I raced together. Later I became interested in solo competition. I still race occasionally. I maintain a membership at the St. Francis Yacht Club and that gives me an opportunity to crew now and then.”
   “I’ll bet you picked up a good share of trophies over the years.”
   “If I admit you’re right, I’ll sound conceited.”
   “If you don’t I’ll consider it false modesty.”
   “Either way, I lose.”
   “You can’t tell me that you’re not able to come up with a bright remark that will make you sound modest, competitive, and…”
   “A winner?”
   “Yes.”
   “I only care if I’m a winner with you.”
   “Darn.”
   “What’s wrong?”
   “I’ve been trying to keep the conversation impersonal, and I walked right into that. Set myself up.”
   “You seem frightened of me. Or rather, of us. Why?”
   She considered the question before answering.“The situation is quixotic. We’re professional associates. I’ve worked on two cases for you, and I hope you’ll throw more business my way in the future. Intermingling business with…” She groped for the right word.
   “Pleasure?” he said.
   “That wasn’t quite how I was going to express it, but, yes, pleasure—it can become a destructive combination. If our relationship crashes and burns, it will be awkward working together. It would be prudent to keep business in the forefront to avoid complications.”
   “Is that what you want?”
   “No. And that’s the problem. I enjoy being with you, and I had a great time onSerenade today.”
   “I enjoy your company, too. Why fight it? I’m not the type to kiss and tell. Besides, we haven’t gotten that far…yet.”
   He reached across the table and covered her hand with his. He angled his head forward.
   “We’re both mature enough to handle this. The attraction between us is undeniable. Why not allow it to evolve without putting barricades in the way?”
   The waitress’s arrival with their entrées interrupted the conversation. Christie was relieved to have the topic temporarily suspended. She did not want to explore her feelings further right now. It was too risky. While casually dating an associate was socially benign, her attraction to Cash involved more than chemistry. His presence in her life had been swift as an arrow shot from an archer’s bow. If her emotions continued to catch fire and his did not, it could be disastrous.
   Later, after the dessert dishes were cleared, they dawdled over coffee.
   “I spoke to Hal about your report on Elliot’s signature. He isn’t completely convinced. He doesn’t want to be, of course. He can’t fathom Elliot selling family stock. I’m going to Arizona tomorrow to meet with him. I’d like you to come along and deliver your findings in person. I knowI’m putting you on the spot, but if Hal meets you, he’ll be more positive about your ability. Until now he never knew that questioned document examiners existed, much less that he would employ one.”
   “I don’t know if I can clear my desk on such short notice.”
   “We won’t be gone long, and if it guarantees a satisfied client, I would think that would make your decision easy. I’ll throw in some sightseeing to make the offer more attractive. My place is near Oak Creek Canyon, Arizona’s ‘little Grand Canyon.’ It’s the next best thing to the big one. The foliage is spectacular right now.”
   “I’ve never been to Arizona…”
   “Then here’s your chance. The rimrock at sunset is impressive, so don’t forget to pack a camera.”
   “Slow down! I can’t leave the rest of my cases in limbo on a whim.”
   “A whim? You agreed to work on the Parker case. Surely that includes on-site consultations with the clients.”
   “Yes, but there’s nothing to be gained in my going. My report makes it clear that both letters were written by the same person: Elliot Parker.”
   “There’s Margo to consider,” he continued. “Her pregnancy has made her sensitive. She will appreciate having the outcome of your report reinforced by your own words, from your own lovely mouth.”
   “Oh, Cash, you’re impossible.”
   “If you’re uncomfortable about accommodations, I can arrange to have my part-time housekeeper remain overnight. I wouldn’t want you to lose sleep over the fear of being ravished.”
   Christie laughed.“All right. But I have the feeling that you knew I’d give in if you badgered me long enough.”
   In response a wide grin spread across Cash’s face.Pleased or devilish? she wondered. A little voice in her head warned that not even a resident duenna could assure her safety in the situation ahead. Anxiety and exhilaration filled her with the same tension she experienced when contemplating a black-diamond ski run. There was a subtle difference, however: if she tumbled down a snow-covered mountain, she only risked a fractured bone. If she fell for Cash McCullough, she could wind up with a broken heart.
   CHAPTER THREE
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   The Beechcraft Baron taxied down the runway at San Francisco Airport. Sitting in the cocoon-like cockpit of a private plane was far removed from the movie-theater ambience of a jumbo jet. The steady rumble of the wheels beneath Christie’s feet as the plane hurtled across the tarmac placed her in an intimate relationship with the business of flying.
   She watched the ailerons flutter as the plane gathered speed, readying for liftoff. The cabin vibrated as the Beechcraft nosed upward at a seemingly impossible angle, and the breath caught in her throat. Her fingers clutched the armrests so tightly her knuckles turned white. Climbing steadily, they left San Francisco’s skyline far below. Carving an arc over the bay, the plane headed south, gaining altitude with every minute.
   Christie’s tenacious grip on the seat loosened when the plane leveled out at cruising altitude. Cash glanced at her.
   “Hey, it wasn’t that bad, was it?”
   “Well…this is the first time I’ve flown in a private plane. It’s a bit scary. Wouldn’t it be simpler to take a commercial flight?”
   “Heck, no. When I want to go someplace, it has to be right away, not on Cozy Craft Airlines’ schedule.”
   “But think of all the work you could accomplish if you left the driving to a pro,” she countered.
   “Are you criticizing my ability to fly this baby? I’m considered a first-rate pilot in some circles. Besides, paperwork is the bane of a creative mind. At twenty thousand feet above the ground, there is little to interfere with my thought process. I often capture an elusive or forgotten facet of defense strategy cruising through the clouds. Besides, it’s fun.” He smiled at her. “It’s good for the soul.”
   She did not doubt his enjoyment. She only wished she shared his enthusiasm.
   Cash’s attention became fixed on the endless blue corridor. A shaft of sunlight pierced a cloud bank above the jet and split into a medley of cinnamon rays that transformed the puffs below into cotton candy. It was like being in the center of a kaleidoscope, and Christie was lulled into relaxation bythe swirling fantasy atmosphere.
   She was beginning to understand why he preferred flying in a small plane. Commercial airlines offered a means of getting to a destination. The Beechcraft was all about the journey. The hum of the props was a soothing chant that eventually cleared her mind of anxieties.
   Cash’s shoulders shifted up and down in an exaggerated shrug. “Do me a favor, Christie? My neck and shoulders are knotted. Would you massage them for a few minutes? I’ll put the plane on automatic pilot.”
   She crossed her arms over her chest in an unconscious attitude of self-protection. To refuse would be petty. She fumbled with the seat belt and stood up slowly, hesitantly. Each measured step was a delaying tactic, deliberately putting off physical contact.
   She stood behind him and placed her hands at the base of his neck. His skin was warm beneath her fingers. She kneaded the taut muscles, feeling his heartbeat increase in tempo as her fingers walked along his neck and shoulders.
   “Grrreat,” he growled.
   Encouraged, she traced the angles of his shoulders, pressing her fingers into each groove and rubbing her thumbs across the rounded rise. There was strength here. Leaning against him slightly, she flattened her hands across his collarbone and took in the feel of his skin against her palms. She shook herself. Enough. She was enjoying this little exercise too much. She stepped back.
   “How was that?” She hoped he caught the inflection in her voice that indicated the massage was over.
   “Much better. You’re a regular wizard; there’s magic in those hands.”
   “You mean sorceress.”
   “What?”
   “Wizard is masculine. Sorceress is feminine.”
   “How could I have confused your gender?”
   “Behave yourself.”
   “I haven’t done anything wrong yet.”
   “You’re thinking it. Naughty vibrations were burning my fingertips. You were definitely not focused on flying.”
   “I had more entertaining things on my mind. Would you rather have a boring companion with soda-bottle glasses and tunnel vision?”
   “No, but I’d be a lot more comfortable—and safe. How long before we reach Sedona?”
   “We’re due to land at seven. It will still be light out and you’ll see firsthand that the area lives up to its scenic reputation.”
   “If it’s so beautiful, why did you move to California?”
   “I attended law school at Stanford, got my degree and never left. I boughtSerenade after my first year in practice—that was six years ago—and made it my home.”
   Christie perceived wistfulness in his voice.“Are you content with being a part-time resident of Arizona?”
   “It doesn’t take long to become a native Californian. Especially when you have an affinity for water. I get edgy if I can’t smell the sea, so California is a perfect fit. When I want the desert, I hop on board the Beechcraft and in a few hours I’m in Sedona.”
   “And the rest of your family?”
   “San Diego area. My brother-in-law is in corporate sales for a hotel chain. About five years ago, he accepted a job transfer to San Diego and he and my sister, Jane, and the kids settled in La Jolla. Soon after, my parents settled into a retirement community nearby. We usually get together once amonth; there’s always a holiday or birthday to celebrate. Mine’s coming up soon—I’ll be thirty-two.”
   She wouldn’t reach the bigthree-oh for two more years.
   Chalk up another point in his favor: it didn’t sound like he had heavy baggage in his past. He had sailed with his father, and spoke well of his mother and sister. Her own parents lived in Reno, and it lifted her spirits whenever they got together.
   An hour and a half later, Cash radioed air control, alerted them to his position, and requested permission to land. Minutes later the Beechcraft began its descent.
   “Cash! We’re still in the mountains. We’ll crash.”
   “No, we won’t. The landing strip is on the top of the canyon. Don’t worry, taking this baby down is a piece of cake.”
   Butterflies swarmed in Christie’s stomach and her mouth felt like it was full of cotton. She clutched the armrests and tried to convince herself that there was no reason for fear. Cash was an experienced pilot and he flew into this airport regularly.
   The earth was coming at them too fast for her inner dialogue to be persuasive. She tried to force her eyes shut, to push the scene out of her mind, but failed. Her eyes flew open, and the ground continued to hurtle toward them.
   “Cash, the runway is so short. The canyon…” There was no room for miscalculation. If they overshot the runway, the plane would plunge over a precipice.
   “Relax; there’s plenty of room.”
   “Relax? You’ve got to be kidding.”
   Every muscle in her body was taut as she leaned forward, mesmerized by the dramatic approach to the landing strip. Cash lowered the landing gear and the plane nosed toward the tarmac. Just before landing, he gently eased the nose upward a few degrees. The wheels bumped the ground. The plane lifted slightly, then touched down again and sped across the runway. He reversed throttle and the plane reluctantly slowed, engines grinding, cockpit trembling.
   When they finally grumbled to a lazy roll, Cash maneuvered off the runway.
   “Welcome to Sedona.”
   Christie’s hands were shaking so hard she could not release her seat belt.
   “Let me help you.”
   Cash reached to unbuckle her. His face was close to hers and his breath lay across her throat. She fumbled with the buckle again, but finally gave in to his assistance. She stood on unsteady legs, as though she had just climbed out of the saddle after a long horseback ride.
   “That was quite an experience,” she said.
   “You get used to it. My first solo was from this airport.”
   “That took guts.”
   “Looking back, I think it bordered on insanity to practice touch-and-go exercises from this piece of rimrock. But what does a kid know?”
   Cash opened the cockpit door and dropped the stairs. They stepped to the ground and he secured the wheels with blocks. A twin of his SUV was parked at the edge of the field. Cash stowed their overnight bags inside.
   “How did you arrange this?” she asked.
   “I call ahead and my housekeeper and her husband drop the Jeep off. You wouldn’t want to walk all the way to my hacienda, would you?”
   “After that plane ride, I’m lucky my legs carried me to the Jeep.” She slid across the passenger seat while Cash got behind the steering wheel.
   Along the road, butter-yellow flowers grew thickly beneath the muted green that crowned the twisted gray trunks of sycamores. The arms of prickly cactus were angled in a pose resembling a traffic cop directing cars at an intersection. The rimrock, etched in horizontal gradations of red, contrasted sharply with the cool colors. In the brilliant sunset the sky was streaked with vermilion.
   There was a soothing quality to the scenery, and by the time they turned into Cash’s driveway, Christie’s anxieties had slipped away. Cash managed their duffel bags and pushed open a wrought-iron gate. He stepped aside for her to enter the courtyard.
   The sprawling Spanish-style architecture hinted at hidden patios and cloistered gardens. Within the low adobe wall was an oasis of ginger hibiscus and cascading flames of fuchsia blossoms. A tangle of crimson bougainvillea clung to the oval at the recessed entry.
   Inside, the rooms flowed with an openness that provided an illusion of space to surpass the already abundant dimensions. The walls were thick and Christie surmised that they were designed for insulation. The light fixtures were constructed of heavy wrought iron, curved and fluted in a traditional Spanish motif. Beveled-glass French doors opened the rooms to a courtyard garden with a rock-rimmed pool and spa.
   “This is beautiful.” Christie could not eliminate the awe from her voice. “There’s a sense of comfort and efficiency…and earthiness. Your home is definitely a personal statement. I’ll bet you return to your practice renewed after a weekend here.”
   Cash took her hand.“You’re very perceptive. Few people understand that efficient does not automatically equate to ugly. I crave simplicity because I don’t have time to deal with clutter.”
   She wondered where the promised housekeeper was hiding. She was beginning to suspect that mentioning her had been a ploy to convince her to accompany him to Arizona. However, only regular attention to house and garden explained their well-tended appearance.
   “Where’s the guardian of chaste morals?” she asked.
   “Is that why you appear tense? You’re not afraid of me?”
   “Don’t be ridiculous. But this was billed as a business trip, and there is the matter of a housekeeper.”
   “You think I made that up?”
   “No, of course not. I’m still feeling the effects of the plane ride, but I would be more comfortable if the duenna was onstage. Wave a magic wand, rub Aladdin’s lamp, or do whatever is necessary to conjure her appearance. Then let’s get on with our reason for being here.”
   “You sure do cut to the chase. I’ll speak to Maria immediately. I’m sure she is anxious to meet you, too.”
   Knowing that a third party would be on the premises had a calming effect. Until she knew more about him, and what his values were, it was wise to be cautious. But she recognized that it was a bit late for that line of thinking. Flying to Arizona with him and being put up in his personal domain had not been exactly a cautious move on her part.
   She heard his voice in conversation with a woman speaking rapid Spanish. She could not understand what either was saying, but the conversation suddenly halted. Cash’s footsteps were heavy on the terrazzo as he returned to the living room.
   “My housekeeper sends her regrets; she can’t stay overnight.” He lifted his hand, palm outward, as if to ward off further verbal assault. “I know what you are thinking, but you’re wrong. I honestly believed I could rely on Maria to stay for the weekend. Problem is, her husband seems to harbor old-fashioned ideas about a woman’s place being in the home. His. I tried to change her mind, but she threatened to quit.”
   It seemed obvious that he had tried to cajole his housekeeper, but Christie was nagged by the thought that since she did not understand Spanish, she only had his word that the conversation concerned Maria’s refusal to stay. It was difficult to comprehend that this masterful persuader of juries could not convince one stubborn woman, but she would give him the benefit of the doubt.
   “Come on, I’ll show you to your room and give Maria a chance to cool off before she serves dinner.”
   The guest room was lovely; the soft-green decor a refreshing antidote to the mustard hues of the desert. Cash deposited her duffel on a chair.
   “Maria has promised one of her finest creations as a peace offering. You have twenty minutes to freshen up.”
   Twenty minutes later she joined Cash on the patio. Tiny colored lanterns cast a festive glow across the flagstone. A recessed light illuminated the pool, and the surface of the water quivered in the warm breeze. In the fading sunlight, a flowered umbrella that provided daytime shade was a charming prop to a round, glass-topped table.
   Maria glided onto the patio, carrying a pair of steaming plates. Cash introduced her to Christie.“I hope you enjoy your visit,” she said. She waved a finger at Cash. “Mr. Cash, you will behave yourself, no?” Her tone was somber, but her eyes twinkled with laughter. She placed their dinners on bright-red place mats and left.
   Cash poured wine into their glasses. Christie tasted her food. The mildly spiced chicken chunks and sautéed vegetables were delicious.
   “Maria is an excellent cook,” she said.
   “Her family owned a café in town, and Maria learned cooking at her mother’s knee. After they sold the business, Maria took this job. I’m very fortunate to have her.”
   They savored the food in comfortable silence. Christie could not help noticing that Cash looked boyishly attractive in a hand-embroidered Mexican wedding shirt. He blended with the Spanish setting as though he had been born to it.
   “That’s a good-looking shirt.”
   “Thanks. Maria made it for me in one of her more charitable moments. Wishful thinking on her part, perhaps. She never stops chattering at me that I should settle down and get married.”
   “And?”
   “I haven’t had time to find a candidate.” He grinned boyishly. “Unless you’re volunteering?”
   Christie held her hands up in a truce gesture.“Don’t look to me for salvation. I haven’t had a spare moment to get my own social life in full swing.”
   “I guess I’m destined to remain a wallflower.”
   “Poor darling.”
   Cash reached across the table and covered her hand with his.“I like thedarling bit. If we can continue in that vein, I’ll overlook your previous ungraciousness.”
   “Me? Ungracious? You have some nerve!” she teased back. “You misrepresent your intentions, then expect me to beg forgiveness? Perhaps I’d do well to see if Maria and her husband can put me up for the night.”
   “About Maria.” His expression turned serious. “It was thoughtless on my part to promise she would stay at the hacienda before checking with her. And I wish I could guarantee that I won’t be thinking of you as more than a business associate. I’m only human, and you’re an extremely attractive woman. I’m not going to pretend I won’t be tempted to try and romance you.”
   Christie took a deep breath.“Your directness is more difficult to deal with than an unexpected pass. If you came on too strong, I could slap your face or cut you down with a few harsh words. Now I’m at a disadvantage. If I become agitated at your conduct, you can say that I was forewarned, and what did I expect?”
   “It’s going to be a long weekend if you keep putting me off.”
   “It will be longer if we continue this flirtation.”
   “Remember our truce? Surely that qualifies for a kiss and making up.” Cash stood and drew her from her chair. He cupped her chin and tilted her face upward. Her breath caught in her throat. Everything she had said meant nothing now. Pinpricks marched across her skin and her eyelids fluttered, then closed. She waited to feel his mouth on hers.
   “I’ll clear the dishes before I go, Señor Cash.” Maria emerged from the shadows and Christie quickly stepped away from Cash. Maria placed the dishes on a tray and padded away. Cash touched Christie’s shoulder and she jumped. He laughed.
   “Come on, it isn’t that serious. Maria was oblivious to what she interrupted. Let’s continue where we left off.”
   “I’m tired and I’m going to say good night.” The mood had fled, replaced by sensibility.
   “Don’t let an inopportune incident ruin the evening. You wanted that kiss as much as I did.”
   “What makes you think that?”
   “You can’t deny the chemistry.”
   “No, I can’t,” she said.
   “Then what’s holding you back?”
   “I don’t want to be rushed. I’m going to say good night; it’s been a long day.”
   His eyes darkened momentarily.“I understand. I hope you sleep well, Christie.”
   Later, the hacienda was blanketed with a quiet that was foreign to Christie. She was accustomed to the nocturnal cacophony of a never-sleeping city. At home, those sounds nudged her into slumber. Here, the silence was unsettling; she was wide awake and morning seemed a lifetime away. If she didn’t get some rest, she would be miserable and useless when daybreak came. But how could she relax when Cash was on the other side of the courtyard, only a few steps away?
   CHAPTER FOUR
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Christie was snuggled inside a soft crazy quilt. Bright sunlight danced across her face, urging her awake. For a moment she was disoriented; the room was unfamiliar. She stretched, sat up, and swiveled around until her feet dangled off the edge of the bed. Through the sheer curtains, she could see a saguaro cactus, its chunky arms elbowed skyward. Twenty-four hours ago she was riding a cable car high above San Francisco Bay. Today she was staring out at the flat, dry desert—at Cash’s home. Her sense of time and place became jumbled in her semiawake mind.
   She slipped her feet into soft suede slippers and headed for the bathroom. After showering, she dressed in khakis and a pale-blue short-sleeved pullover. She hurried through the house to the patio, where she found Cash reading the paper. When he saw her, he folded the paper and slipped it under his chair.
   “Good morning.” He looked at his watch. “You have time for breakfast, then we’ll be on our way.”
   The air was pleasantly warm and fragrant. Jasmine clung to the adobe wall that surrounded the patio. The plant’s green tendrils were spotted with dainty white flowers.
   Christie sipped dark, rich coffee and sneaked a look at Cash over her cup. His eyebrows suddenly arched upward.
   “What’s so interesting?” he asked.
   Caught out, she took a deep breath and opened her mouth to reply, but discovered she was tongue-tied. That was what he did to her, she realized with dismay.
   “Christie?” He cocked his head sideways, waiting for her to answer his question.
   “You’re interesting,” she said, regaining composure. “There are so many layers to your personality and character that I am somewhat taken aback.”
   “In what way?”
   “Definitely in more than a professional way.”Why not be honest? she thought.
   Cash reached across the table and grasped her hand. A prickling marched up her arm. As he leaned closer, his dark eyes engulfed her. She was lost, and she knew it. Slowly, she retrieved her hand and put her other hand over it, as if for protection. She looked into her half-empty coffee cup to avert her gaze from him.
   “I think we’d better be going.” His voice was flat.
   They drove through Oak Creek Canyon. Twisted sycamores bordered the road. The jagged rimrock was layered with varying shades of copper. There was an ancient, unspoiled look to the landscape, and Christie could almost visualize long-ago Indians astride pintos, standing lookout over their vast lands.
   The drive was pleasant, and Cash spoke of Hal and Margo warmly, relaying anecdotes of their adolescent mischief. It was obvious that the bond between the three of them was strong.
   A large river rock–edged sign announced an upscale housing complex. Cash turned into the entrance and drove a couple of blocks before pulling into a cul-de-sac. They parked in front of a pinkish-beige stucco house with a red-tile roof. A green lawn fringed the house, creating a desert oasis. The front door opened as they approached. A smiling, obviously pregnant woman waved; her other arm cradled her rounded belly. Cash quickly strode along the walkway to meet her.
   “Margo, you’re looking wonderful.” He embraced the woman, then stepped aside. “I’d like you to meet Christie Hamilton.”
   Margo’s grip was warm and firm. “I can’t tell you how much we appreciate your coming, Christie. Come in; Hal’s on the back patio.”
   They walked through the house. The rooms were generously proportioned and furnished in desert hues. Large oil paintings of flowers and landscapes added color to an otherwise monochromatic scheme.
   On the patio Hal immediately stepped to his wife’s side and put an arm around her. “Glad to meet you, Christie,” he said after introductions. “Cash told us you are one of the best document examiners, so we’re going to rely on your report.”
   Christie was aware that they were not going to appreciate what she planned to tell them.
   They sat at a wrought-iron table. A pitcher of iced tea and a carafe of hot coffee were on a tray with muffins and a platter of melon.“Help yourself,” Hal said. He poured coffee for Cash and himself, while Margo and Christie opted for iced tea. Margo squeezed lemon into her glass and stirred.
   “I know Cash filled you in on our situation. We haven’t heard from my father-in-law in a year. And now our stockbroker receives a directive to sell Elliot’s stock. It doesn’t make sense.”
   “Dad has always held a controlling interest in Parker Electronics. I can’t believe he would relinquish that.”
   “Cash did tell you that I concluded that the letter is genuine?”
   “Yes, but Hal has questions,” Margo said.
   “We brought the report with us. I’ll go over it with you so that you can understand each detail.”
   Margo waved the suggestion away, but Hal did not dismiss the offer.
   “I lost my mother, I can’t bear to lose my father, too.” Tears rolled down Margo’s face. Hal quickly placed his hand on his wife’s shoulder.
   “Margo’s had a rough pregnancy. We almost lost the baby early on and she had to have four weeks of bed rest. This is our third pregnancy. The other two ended in miscarriages, so we’ve been very careful. The situation with her father is causing my wife undue stress.”
   “I just want my father back, and I want my child to have a grandfather. We were a close-knit family before the blowup. Dad wasn’t thinking straight, and he said some cruel, divisive things. But no rift is wide enough to separate us if we set our minds to mending the breach.”
   “But first we have to find Elliot,” Hal said.
   “Where do we come in?” Cash asked. “I get the feeling that there is more to this meeting than going over the handwriting report.”
   “A longtime friend of Elliot’s lives in one of those retirement villages in Northern California. I’m sure they keep in touch. The instructions to send the check for the stock to Marin more or less confirm it.”
   “And you want me to locate him.” It was a statement, not a question.
   “We know it’s an imposition, Cash. I’d fly out there myself and look for Elliot, but I can’t leave Margo.”
   “What’s the man’s name?”
   “Benson. Elliot called him Ben, but I don’t think that’s his given name.”
   “And the name of the retirement village?”
   “That’s the part you’re not going to like, Cash. I don’t have the slightest idea. Ben was big on powerboats and fishing, so it is probably near water. Whatever it takes, we’re willing to pay for the best investigator.”
   “You think he lives near water. Do you realize how many lakes and rivers there are in Northern California, not to mention the coast? You can’t expect speedy results, if any at all.”
   “Please, Cash,” Margo said. She dabbed her tear-filled eyes with her knuckles.
   “Have you talked to his attorney? He may know where Elliot is hiding out.”
   “Yes. He sympathizes with us, but he’s not at liberty to even tell us if he knows where Dad is,” Margo said.
   “How frustrating,” Christie said.
   “But ethical,” Cash reminded her.
   “I’m due in six weeks. I’ve got to know that my father is going to be here for me when the baby is born.”
   “I’ll be here for you, sweetheart,” Hal said softly.
   “Oh, Hal, of course. What would I do without you? Maybe it’s because Mom is gone. A daughter needs her mother when her baby is born.” Her voice sounded wistful. “I can’t shake the need for one of my parents to be with me.”
   “We’re going to take care of that, honey. Aren’t we, Cash?”
   “We’re sure going to try.”
   “I’d like to take you to lunch, Christie,” Margo said. “While the guys huddle and figure out strategy, and wolf down the sandwiches I prepared, we can go into town. Consider it a small personal thank-you for going the extra mile for us.”
   Christie was thrown off balance by the invitation, but had no reason to refuse. She was warming up to Margo; why not spend a couple of hours in her company? She looked at Cash to determine if he had conflicting plans. He nodded his approval, and the women excused themselves.
   They drove to a small shopping plaza. As they walked past an art gallery, a tall, nattily dressed older man came to the doorway and greeted Margo.
   “I hope you’ve been working, Margo. We could use a few more paintings. The tourists have just about bought me out.”
   “That’s good news, Ed, but I haven’t been in the studio much lately.” Margo patted her stomach. “But I have a couple of desert scenes that you might like. I’ll have Hal bring them round.”
   “I’ll look forward to seeing them,” he said.
   “You paint?” Christie said as they chose a table on the patio of a nearby Mexican restaurant.
   “Yes. And Ed is one of my best clients. He was my first, too, so I always make sure that I keep him supplied. Without his early encouragement, I might not have believed I could ever go beyond being an amateur. Not that being an amateur is bad, but I did yearn for more, to be able to immerse myself totally in art. He helped me realize that goal.”
   “What type of painting do you do?”
   “Oil and acrylics. Desert scenes, bold depictions of cactus flowers, ground animals, lumbering cactus plants, rimrock.” She waved her arms in an arc. “I try to capture my environment.”
   “How long have you been painting?”
   “Oh, for years. At first I dabbled, then I took lessons and began hanging out with other artists. I joined the art league and entered shows. I made my first sale at an outdoor showing here in this center. I could hardly believe someone paid me for doing what I loved. Of course, afterward, I mourned my absent painting. That didn’t last long, though, because selling a painting is like being given permission to paint more!”
   “I took art classes during my senior year in high school and during the first two years of college,” Christie said. “Once I began studying administration of justice, however, there never seemed to be time for outside pursuits.”
   “You should sign up for a seminar and get reacquainted with techniques, and then go on location for an afternoon of painting.”
   “Someday…”
   “Christie, life is filled with somedays. What is relevant are the todays. Don’t put it off any longer. I’m sure you can find classes through your local recreation department or art gallery. There are an inordinate amount of scenic spots in the Bay Area to set up an easel.”
   “I’ll have to think about it.”
   “Don’t wait too long, or you’ll miss your chance.” Margo picked up her menu. “We’d better order or the waitress will think we’re loitering.” She smiled as though that was a private joke.
   While they ate lunch, sunshine hopscotched around the table. The sunlight felt warm on Christie’s arms. In another month or so, she realized, the desert heat would not be at all comfortable, as the temperature soared into triple digits. Right now, however, it seemed perfect. A welcome contrast to San Francisco’s fog.
   “Tell me more about your artwork,” Christie said.
   “Hal built a studio for me four or five years ago. I had just put on my first one-woman show. It was successful, and we were both walking on air, visualizing an amazing career for me. I would become the next Monet or Georgia O’Keeffe. Of course, when I woke up the next morning, and figured out how many hours I had spent on each painting I’d sold, and how many hours I had spent on the paintings that didn’t sell, it was like someone had thrown cold water in my face. Painting was never going to make us rich, but that wasn’t the point. I had sold enough paintings to consider myself a professional artist. And Hal wasn’t interested in dollars and cents. He was pleased to know that my work met with acceptance; he knew it was important to me. Hence the studio. Now he’s building a cradle so that the baby can sleep in the studio while I work.”
   Margo’s fingertips splayed across her stomach. “This baby means a great deal to us. After two miscarriages we were beginning to think that a baby of our own wasn’t in the cards. There were a couple of months when my pregnancy seemed iffy. If I get through the next few weeks, the baby will have a good weight, and that’s important.”
   “Do you know the baby’s sex?”
   “I’ve been tempted to find out, but we decided to go the old-fashioned route, and be surprised.”
   “Do you have names picked out?”
   “Matthew Elliot after my dad, or Emily Anne, after both of our mothers.”
   Christie nodded. Matthew Elliot. She only hoped that they could find Elliot so that he could be present when his or his wife’s namesake arrived. Oh, what he would miss if he continued to be estranged from his family.
   The waitress brought their check and a couple of hard mints. Margo paid the bill and they began walking toward the car.
   “Oh, look.” Margo pointed. “A class is setting up.”
   A group carrying easels and wooden paint boxes was scattered around a lush garden. The focal point was a fountain framed by an arched entryway ablaze with crimson bougainvillea. Folding chairs and stools snapped open and easel legs were latched into place. Paint palettes were dabbed with assorted globs of color. The artists hunkered down, studying their surroundings, contemplating the scene they would attempt to reproduce.
   As they approached, Margo said,“I know the instructor. He’s been with the Art League for years, and his seminars are popular. As you can see.” Her arm scribed a circle to include the dozen or so people positioned in front of easels and canvas. Margo waved, and the instructor returned the gesture.
   Margo grasped Christie’s arm. “No time like now to meet one of our Art League members.”
   “But he’s busy,” Christie protested.
   “Nottoo busy.”
   Margo linked her arm through Christie’s and they walked to where the instructor was setting up.
   “Casey, I’d like you to meet Christie Hamilton. I’m trying to talk her into taking an art class, but she’s balking.”
   “What’s holding you back, Christie? The time involved? Or are you afraid you’ll be a failure?”
   Caught off guard by the frank question, Christie became defensive.“My job doesn’t leave any spare time for extras. And besides, I wouldn’t know where to start.”
   “Ah, if you set your mind to it, I’ll bet you can knock down those barriers. Surely there are classes at a recreation center or community college near you. Or private lessons. Check around.
   “Here is a schedule of my classes.” He pulled a brochure from his backpack. “If you visit Margo again, drop by and I’ll give you some pointers. Now, I’d better get back to my budding Van Goghs. It was nice meeting you, Christie.”
   Walking to the car, Margo told Christie that she hoped she would seriously consider Casey’s invitation. Christie felt as though she was being steamrolled, but she wouldn’t toss the idea away.
   When they were on the road, Margo turned the subject back to Elliot.“You must think my father is a terrible man to run off like he did.”
   “No, not at all,” Christie replied, but she did have reservations about Elliot Parker. How could he leave such a loving daughter and caring son-in-law? She could not comprehend Elliot’s turning his back on his family.
   “Dad’s a good man. We had a wonderful relationship; Hal was like a son to him. Mom’s death turned his world upside down, and although we tried, we couldn’t set it right. He’s hurting, and in his pain he lashed out at the nearest and dearest to him. He’s too stubborn to consider that he might have been wrong. Poor Daddy.” Margo dabbed beneath her eyes with her fingertips.
   When they returned to Hal and Margo’s house, the men were still on the patio, having a heated discussion about baseball. Hal was loyal to the home team, while Cash was a San Francisco Giants fan.
   Margo laughed.“It always comes down to this, Christie: sports rivalry.”
   “Hal won’t admit that San Francisco has a better team than Phoenix,” Cash groused.
   Margo shook her head.“Come on, Hal, tell Cash his team is great.”
   Hal’s reaction was one of pretended shock. “How can you say that?”
   “Because I want to keep peace. And we know better, don’t we, hon?”
   Christie smiled at the interplay.
   “That settles it,” Cash said. “We’re out of here.” He shook hands with Hal and hugged Margo. “It was good seeing you two. I’ll keep you updated on what we find out about Elliot, if anything.”
   Margo gave Christie a hug.“Remember what I said about not waiting for someday to come around.”
   “What was that all about?” Cash asked as they got into the SUV.
   “I confided that I’ve always wanted to paint. Margo encouraged me to give it a try.”
   “Interesting. By the way, Hal is going to bankroll us to dinner this evening.”
   “How generous.”
   “Consider it payment for services rendered. Hal knows my bill won’t cover my costs.”
   “Sounds like the generosity works both ways.”
   At seven o’clock that evening, they drove up a steeply curving driveway leading to a popular local restaurant. Edging the driveway, ground-level lanterns sparkled like candles on a birthday cake. Inside the dining room, walls of glass revealed a breathtaking view. When they were seated, Christie scanned her surroundings. The white damask–covered table was set with formal silverware and a nosegay of pale-pink roses. A miniature hurricane lamp cast a soft glow across their faces.
   Cash’s gaze was intent. Shivers cartwheeled along Christie’s spine, and she nervously fidgeted with her napkin. This dinner did not resemble the casual Fisherman’s Wharf lunch, or coffee on his patio. This was an intimate, romantic setting. She was vitally aware of Cash’s charisma, and her reaction to it. In an attempt to distract herself from concentrating on him, she turned her attention to the view outside the window. Dusk had not yet fallen, and there was an almost mystic aura to the patterns of light and shadow that dotted the desert. The sky was streaked with vermilion, and reflected the heat that feathered her. In a not-too-distant corral, a red-shirted cowboy unsaddled a black-and-white horse and hefted the gear over the top rail of a whitewashed fence.
   “Christie?”
   Cash’s voice was deep and soft, like a caress. She turned to answer him, but was afraid to speak, knowing that her voice would betray the emotions that were spiraling out of control.Too soon, too soon, her sensible side insisted.Enjoy the moment, take what you can, her heart intoned. Which path should she follow, she wondered. Wrapped in the warmth of Cash’s smile, the torrid magnetism of his gaze, she realized that she probably did not have a choice.
   CHAPTER FIVE
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   “What deep thoughts are churning around inside your head?” Cash asked, while they lingered over coffee. “Must be important to keep you so quiet.”
   His eyes grazed her face in an appraising manner, and a muscle twitched at the side of his mouth.“Christie? Where are you?”
   He leaned forward and picked up her hand. His strong, rough hands seemed to contain electricity. She pulled away as though shocked, then felt foolish.
   “I was concentrating on that cowboy.” She tipped her head toward the window. The cowboy was hopping into an old yellow truck. She realized her statement was empty; there was nothing interesting about a person climbing into a beat-up vehicle.
   Cash raised his eyebrows, challenging her.“You were concentrating on what?”
   “On who. The cowboy. When I was a child, I wanted to be one.” At least that was true. Not interesting, but truthful.
   “Am I making you nervous?” he said.
   “Of course not. Why would you ask such a ridiculous question?”Nervous was a mild description, she thought, for the reaction she was having to him.
   “Okay. So you wanted to be a cowboy. Don’t you mean cowgirl?”
   “No, I didn’t want to be a cowgirl. They wore those silly fringed leather skirts. I wanted the real thing, a Stetson, and chaps over my jeans.” If she kept the conversation light, she thought, the swarm of swallows beating their wings against her stomach might fly away.
   She was so aware of him, it was as if they were in a completely empty restaurant. She gazed at his face. His eyes seemed to burn into hers, and her mouth went dry. Her equilibrium tilted. She reached for her coffee and fumbled with the cup. Coffee sloshed over the rim and stained the tablecloth. Mortified, she tried to mop up the mess with her napkin. The waiter rushed over and tried to pull the napkin from her hand. A tug-of-war ensued. She was not willing to give up the napkin; she had made the mess and she felt responsible for cleaning it up. The waiter’s stage-whispered assurance that she was not to concern herself with “the little accident” frazzled her nerves even more, but she finally gave in.
   Cash had covered his mouth with his hand, but the crinkles around his eyes told the story: he was amused. She did not appreciate being the leading lady in a comedy. She gritted her teeth and forced herself to keep quiet. Any comment would make the situation more embarrassing. She had to admit that her reaction was a bit overblown, and what had started as a romantic interlude had deteriorated into a farce.
   “Christie, mellow out.”
   His voice was soft and she detected concern. She laughed, tentatively at first, then heartily. Cash joined in, and her tension eased.
   “I thought that waiter was going to haul off and bop you if you didn’t relinquish the napkin. He was one determined guy.”
   “We both were. Determined.”
   Laugh lines erupted around Cash’s eyes again as he smiled at Christie. Relaxed now, she smiled back. She was thankful that the rest of dinner returned to a comfortable level. She did not want to wrestle with similar dynamics again.
   When they left the restaurant, the night sky was dark, but the desert heat had barely dissipated. As they walked through the parking lot, their shoulders bumped, and her steps faltered. Cash gripped her elbow to keep her from stumbling. She glanced up at him in gratitude. And was lost. He put his hands on her shoulders and turned her to face him.
   “Are you all right?” he asked.
   “Yes. I’m all right.” But was she? His hand was on the back of her neck, his fingers reaching into her hair. Her skin prickled in response and she watched, mesmerized, as his face came closer to hers. Without her thinking about it, her lips parted slightly, and she waited for his kiss.
   “Christie,” he murmured before his mouth came down on hers.
   The night became ablaze with stars, and a flash of comets that had not lighted the sky before his kiss woke her spirit. She couldn’t breathe, her heart was pounding so hard the rest of her organs seemed to constrict. She had fought the infatuation, done everything to resist. But she had fallen into an abyss, and there was no escape.
   Sanity returned and she gently pushed against his chest, severing their embrace. She read his expression. It was obvious that he was surprised by her retreat. She wanted him to hold her again, but that was folly. Things were happening too fast, and she had to slow the pace.
   On the way back to the hacienda, Cash handled the wheel of the SUV like a stock-car driver in a demolition derby. Aware of the insistent nervous energy pushing him, Christie choked back a protest.
   The towering rimrock, deeply painted by shadows, reached skyward, announcing the approach to Sedona. A short time later, they reached his home. The hacienda was silhouetted against a sparsely illuminated landscape. Cash pushed open the wrought-iron gate and they entered the courtyard. Stripped of lights, the angular house appeared unwelcoming.
   He unlocked the door and poked the light switch. The instant-on electricity transformed the interior into a warm, bright, and familiar home once more.
   “Coffee?” he asked.
   She followed him into the kitchen and watched as he pulled out a canister, measured coffee into the drip basket, and shoved the plug into a wall outlet.
   He was still racing, she thought, even though they had reached their destination. They had barely spoken on the way home, each caught up in their own thoughts.
   When the coffee was ready, he poured a cup and pushed it toward her.
   “Aren’t you having any?” she asked.
   “I’m going to swim laps.”
   He didn’t invite her to join him in the pool, and she did not question his need to be alone.
   “I’ll say good night now. See you in the morning, Christie.”
   Her glance questioned him, but he averted his eyes and almost imperceptibly shook his head, as if he did not understand why he had dismissed her so abruptly. She wondered if he was getting back at her for thwarting a second kiss outside the restaurant, but that would have been petty. She did not suspect him of that trait.
   He turned and walked away. The sharp cracking sound of his footsteps on the polished tiles echoed through the house. Christie thought about her impression of the hacienda when they arrived: without lights it had appeared unfriendly. Now the room was ablaze, yet she no longer felt welcome.
   She picked up the book she had been reading earlier. Perhaps a few chapters would take her mind off the evening’s events and ready her for sleep. In bed she punched the pillows and propped them up behind her back. She was comfortable, but she couldn’t keep her mind on the book, reading the same page over and over and not comprehending a word.
   She wished she had Tosha to cuddle. Her beloved cat would soothe her. But she was alone and had to deal with her churning feelings. Putting the book aside, she crept out of bed and stepped to the French doors. She parted the drape with her fingertips and peered outside. Even from this distance, she could see Cash’s arms windmilling through the water, muscles rippling. Her heart lurched at his strength. She had never been attracted to a man so quickly. In truth she had hardly been attracted to anyone in a long time. She had built a protective wall around herself—protection for her heart as well as for her career. But now the armor was cracking, and while it was exciting, it was also frightening.
   She tiptoed back to bed, tossed the book onto the night table, and scrunched under the lightweight quilt. Sleep would be elusive, but she was determined to try. If ever there was a time to count sheep, it was now. Anything to take her mind off Cash.
   In the morning, after getting dressed in shorts and a pullover, she met Cash in the kitchen. He was at the stove, stirring scrambled eggs in a cast-iron pan.
   “Good morning. I hope the sound of my swimming didn’t bother you last night,” he said.
   “Not at all. I fell asleep as soon as my head hit the pillow,” she lied.
   “I peeked in on you later, hoping you’d be awake.”
   “You did?” Christie silently chided herself. She sounded ridiculous, like an eager teenager who had missed acquiring a rock star’s autograph.
   “No.” A smile was evident in the crinkles around Cash’s eyes. “I didn’t want to disturb you. But I stood outside your door for a few minutes, hoping to hear some sign that you were awake.”
   “You shouldn’t have walked so quietly,” she suggested. He would have found her awake. She hadn’t slept a moment until long after his final splash.
   Cash pulled two slices of toast from the toaster, buttered them, and scooped the eggs out of the pan and onto two plates. He carried the plates and silverware to the table and beckoned Christie to sit down.
   Breakfast was companionable. When they finished Christie asked,“Do you have anything planned for today, or are we going to fly back to the Bay Area early?”
   “I told my insurance agent I would stop by this morning to review a policy. To save you from boredom, I’ll drop you off at Tlockapocke and you can browse through the shops. If you’re interested, you might find a bargain on some fine Indian jewelry. When I’m finished with business, I’ll swing by and we can have a late lunch before heading to the airport.”
   At the southwestern-style enclave, Christie sought out the Indian crafts store Cash had recommended. Before she located it, she came upon an art gallery and an outdoor exhibit of oil paintings caught her attention. A small rendering of a red-tailed hawk soaring high above a singular cactus caught her fancy. She checked the price tag and was surprised to see that it was not out of her range.
   A sun-bronzed man dressed in a gingham cowboy shirt, a paisley scarf tied loosely at his neck, lounged on a beat-up wooden bench. His faded jeans, fastened by wide red suspenders, were slung low over a rounded belly. He stroked a thick, graying beard as he observed Christie’s interest in the painting. His hands were gnarled by age or work, and deep, weathered grooves ran across his forehead.
   “These are very nice,” she said.
   “Local artist,” he replied. “Teaches classes at the Art League. Ran into him painting on location in Carefree. He was working on that.” He hitched his thumb in the direction of the painting.
   Christie tried to read the signature at the bottom of the painting, but the letters were cramped. She wondered if it was the artist she and Margo had met in the plaza. It was a sweet painting, small but captivating. Maybe she would forgo an Indian bracelet.
   She considered the price, her savings account, and the bill she would be presenting to Cash. The painting would be a splurge, but only a minor one. Impulse buying wasn’t her style—perhaps she should walk some more, think about it. As though reading her thoughts, and not wanting her out of his reach, the art dealer spoke.
   “You look like you really want this picture. I could probably shave twenty dollars off the price without upsetting the artist; he’s a real nice sort. I’ll just cut my commission a bit to make him happy.”
   Christie couldn’t resist; she lifted the painting from its easel. “I’ll take it. It may be a bit extravagant, but I know it will bring me more pleasure than a fancy bracelet.”
   She went inside the store, paid for the painting, and waited for it to be wrapped. She recognized that she had acted impulsively after all, but the painting hadn’t cost any more than a fine Navajo or Zuni bracelet. She laughed; by the time she met up with Cash, she would have talked herself into believing the picture was a steal.
   She carried the package under her arm and continued a few doors down to look in the Indian store’s window. Brightly inlaid bracelets, stones set in silver, beaded necklaces, squash blossoms with turquoise flowers, sand paintings, and leather goods were displayed. Inside, three showcases of jewelry spotlighted local artisans. Christie was amazed at the intricate designs, but she held her painting close and felt no regret about her purchase.
   She glanced at her watch; Cash would be meeting her soon. She hurried to the restaurant and was relieved that he hadn’t arrived yet. He undoubtedly counted on punctuality. She was sipping a glass of iced tea when Cash joined her.
   He eyed her package.“Looks too big to be a bracelet. What did you buy?”
   “A painting. I’ll show it to you when we get back to the city. I don’t want to remove the wrappings now.”
   “You’ll need bolt cutters to get through that.” He poked with his thumb.
   “The shopkeeper went a bit overboard when I told him I was transporting it in a private plane. I think he visualized something out of an old war movie. You know, the one where you pull the cockpit hatch over your head. I’m surprised he didn’t insist on insuring it. It will be a nice reminder of my visit here,” she added.
   “You sound as though you will never be back. I’m hoping this will get to be a habit.”
   Her gaze locked with his. The golden glints in his eyes seemed to sparkle as he stared at her, his entire attention riveted on her face.
   “Christie?” His voice was low and provocative. “You will be back…”
   The waitress appeared, and Christie was relieved for the break in conversation. They gave their orders and soon the plates were set in front of them. Christie toyed with her food. Once again she found herself at a loss for words.
   Looking for common ground, she said,“I don’t understand how you can resist the laid-back attitude that pervades this town. If I had a hideaway like yours, I would be completely relaxed by the time the weekend was over. Yet you look like you’re poised for flight. I’m sure that you’re already ticking away a list of appointments for tomorrow.”
   “Today.”
   “What?”
   “I was correcting you. I have an appointment with a new client late this afternoon. He’s being held on an old, unpaid traffic warrant, but he’s actually a suspect in an arson investigation. Will you go with me? Take notes or something?”
   “What drives you so hard, Cash? Surely you aren’t trying to live up to your name.”
   He laughed.“Grandmother Cash would wag a finger and warn you not to make light of the family name.”
   “I was worried that it had been hung on you because you pursued wealth.”
   “I work hard for my fees, but the money is secondary.” His expression turned serious. She hoped she hadn’t overstepped with her remark. “I’m sorry. I was teasing.”
   “I know you were. Can I count on your help this afternoon?”
   “Of course.”
   “Then let’s be on our way. Here, let me carry your package.” He dropped some bills on the table and picked up her painting.
   Ninety minutes later, they arrived at the airport. Buckling herself into the cockpit seat, Christie realized how perfectly the aircraft suited Cash. He packed so much activity into each day, it was necessary to be able to go where he wanted when he wanted. That way a weekend getaway could be transformed into a workday on demand.
   The flight back to San Francisco was smooth, and the landing uneventful compared to the hair-raising drop onto the Sedona runway.
   San Francisco Airport was busy as always, and Cash impatiently waited his turn out of the parking lot. When there was a break in traffic, he swung the SUV onto the freeway, his foot heavy on the gas pedal.
   When they reached the county jail, it was obvious by the number of police cars in the parking lot that crime did not take weekends off. Inside they were put through a security check and then ushered into a consultation room.
   Cash’s new client was brought into the room in handcuffs. Twenty-year-old Bobby Moreno wore tight jeans and a black T-shirt that molded to his lean but muscled chest. His appearance suggested that a public defender would be more appropriate than an attorney of Cash’s caliber.
   Cash appeared impervious to the disparity, treating Moreno with the same deference he would any other client. His attitude encouraged confidence and the youth opened up, spilling anger, frustration, and fear.
   When the interview was completed, Christie was confused about Cash’s motivation in agreeing to represent the young man. Moreno did not fit the profile of high-powered cases that Cash had a reputation for defending. There would be no promise of publicity or a fat fee.
   On their way out of the building, Cash said,“This is going to be a tough one; the police have a long book on this kid. Anytime something in his neighborhood goes wrong, Bobby is pulled in for questioning. It doesn’t matter that he hasn’t been in trouble in two years, or that he has a steady job. Or that he may be innocent. The cops probably have circumstantial evidence that’s convincing enough for an indictment.”
   “Surely if Moreno can prove his whereabouts when the crime was committed, you should be able to get him off.”
   “The question is: Can he prove it? If not, Bobby’s years as an incorrigible teenager may speak louder than his last two years of respectability. It isn’t going to be an easy case.
   “I’m a bit stressed out. I’m going to takeSerenade out for a run and try to shake off the tension. Will you go with me?”
   “I’d like that.”
   Half an hour later, they were on boardSerenade, the mainsail was set, and the sloop was gliding out of the harbor. Christie slipped below, into the salon, and changed into shorts and a T-shirt. The summer sun pressed a rosy pink upon her skin and the breeze brushed her hair into disarray. Cash was at the wheel, but his posture indicated that the sea did not erase his stress.
   “Are you still upset about the Moreno boy?” She found it difficult to fathom how anything could disrupt his professional calm so completely.
   He shrugged his shoulders in a suggestion of denial, but she knew it was an empty gesture. After adjusting the mainsail, he put the boat on automatic pilot.
   “One of the first cases I handled was a young man named Timmy, who was accused of breaking and entering. He came from a good family, parents were involved in community activities, his siblings did well in school. But he had a tough adolescence, got in with the wrong crowd. He got into petty scrapes, nothing serious, but later he drew a night in jail and twenty hours of community service for marijuana possession.
   “His parents sent him to Oregon to live with an uncle in a rural area with a strong sense of community. They wanted him away from his buddies. It was a turning point. He got a part-time job and enrolled in the local community college. Two years later, he returned home with a healthy attitude and good job prospects.”
   “That sounds great, but there wouldn’t be a story if it ended there.”
   “You’re right. Timmy’s past came back to haunt him.” Cash gazed over the water. “A year later Timmy’s world was almost blown apart. He became a suspect in a criminal investigation. The crime took place while he was at his sister’s graduation party. Twenty people could vouch for him, but the police didn’t question a single one. The lead detective had zeroed in on Timmy, and like a dog with a bone, he wouldn’t let go.
   “That’s when Timmy’s father came to me. He and my dad had gone to college together and had remained friends. I advised Timmy not to talk to the police unless I was present, and I contacted the detective and demanded to know what evidence he had linking Timmy to the crime. There was none, justsuspicion based on Timmy’s past. The detective finally backed off, but the trail was already cold and the crime was never solved. Timmy was never charged, but the stigma remained. He and his parents eventually moved to Oregon to put distance between them and the scandal. Timmy later married and has a successful consulting business. The last time I spoke to him, he confided that he sometimes wakes in a cold sweat from a recurring dream of being rousted out of bed by a cop holding a gun to his head.”
   “That’s terrible.”
   “We’re supposed to be guaranteed the presumption of innocence, but in real life it doesn’t always work that way. Being fresh out of law school with all my ideals in place, Timmy’s case really affected me. I thought of all the other Timmys who don’t have representation or have to rely on public defenders, who often have more cases than they can possibly handle.”
   “And that’s why you’re representing Bobby Moreno,” Christie said.
   “That’s why I’m representing Bobby Moreno,” Cash confirmed.
   “You’re an okay guy.” She reached out and touched his arm. “I’m glad you told me.”
   “You’re a sympathetic listener.”
   “That’s what friends are for.”
   “I hope you think of me as more than a friend.”
   He drew her to him, and she trembled. His hand slid upward along her neck, and he lifted her hair and brought his mouth to her exposed throat. A gasp escaped her lips. She burrowed her face against his chest and her arms reached around him. She breathed in the scent of salt air and aftershave, a clean and manly aroma.
   The city skyline became dwarfed as they sailed away from it. The bay stretched endlessly toward an unreachable horizon, the blue turning to gray in the distance. Gulls and pelicans dive-bombed for fish, shattering the water’s glassy surface. She heard the muted sound of a ship’s horn as it set course under the Golden Gate Bridge.
   Wrapped in his embrace, nothing was real anymore; not the seabirds, the sky-bound sun, or the city’s diminishing spires. Only she and Cash existed, their bodies tightly aligned. His strength enclosed her like insulation and her body, previously chilled by the wind, was flush with heat. The attraction was strong and her emotions were jumbled.
   The boat rocked gently as it plowed through the waves. Cash’s hands framed her face, and his mouth came down on hers in a kiss that took her breath away. She hadn’t felt this way in a long time; her failed love affair in college had hardened her heart. But now, in Cash’s arms, her heart was melting, her emotions revived. How could she be drawn so completely to a man she’d known for so short a time, she wondered. Whatever the reason, it could not be denied: being in this man’s arms was as close to heaven as she could get.
   CHAPTER SIX
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Monday morning came too soon. Christie had not yet touched base with reality after spending the weekend with Cash. Last night he had reluctantly delivered her to her apartment and they had lingered at the door before saying good night.
   There was an unreal quality to the time they had spent together, she mused as she sat at her desk. Flying to a desert hacienda and dining on a moonlit patio wasn’t part of her usual routine. Neither was being kissed on the windswept deck of a sailboat. She wondered if seeing Cash in the cold light of a workday would chase away the enchanting images and leave her questioning whether she had imagined the entire weekend.
   But memories were vivid, and nothing could tarnish the quality of the past couple of days. She had become a different person. Cash’s entrance into her life had initiated a metamorphosis and she was like a butterfly that had shed its restrictive cocoon.
   The buzzing of her intercom alerted her to a call. She reached for the phone and Cash’s voice boomed over the line.
   “Did you get a chance to transcribe the Moreno notes?”
   Jolted by the demanding sound of his voice, she hesitated before answering.“I’ve been working on my own caseload this morning, Cash. If it’s an emergency, I can have the notes typed and ready to be picked up by the end of the day.”
   “I hate to lean on you this way, Christie, but my paralegals are wrapped up in researching precedents for a case. I’d be indebted to you if you had those notes in my office by four thirty.”
   With a hasty thanks, he severed the connection. She tried to brush away irritation at his abruptness by recalling how only last night he had been sensitive and considerate.
   There was too much work, though, to dwell on Cash’s telephone manners. She dedicated the entire morning to an examination of the last few pages of a diary belonging to an elderly woman who had died a month ago. The final pages included a recently drafted holographic will. The woman’s instructions for dispersing her estate were scrawled acrossthe paper in a shaky hand, and her signature was barely legible. In California, as in many other states, a holographic will did not need witnesses, just proof of authenticity. The estate’s heirs insisted on a professional examination of the handwriting, hoping to have it declared invalid.
   In her prior will, written years ago, the childless woman had left all of her assets to nieces and nephews. The diary indicated a recent change of heart; the majority of the estate was to be distributed to charities. The nieces and nephews insisted the entry was fraudulent, written, perhaps, by their aunt’s attorney, who held a grudge against them. They were wrong; not about the grudge, but about the authenticity of the new will. They were not going to be happy about the small stipend they would each receive as a result.
   Christie dictated her findings into a tape recorder to review them the following day, when she would finalize the report. Next she transcribed the shorthand notes from the Moreno interview.
   It was close to five o’clock by the time she arrived at Cash’s office. She thought Paige, Cash’s receptionist, treated her rather coolly. Her heart lurched at a thought: Did the woman suspect that Christie and Cash were seeing each other? And before Christie had arrived on the scene, had Cash dated other women in the office? At the conclusion of the weekend, was it also the conclusion of the relationship? Monday: business as usual?
   She glanced at the receptionist again. Head bent over the computer keyboard, the woman’s fingers flew across the keys. If asked, would she warn Christie not to take the boss seriously; that he simply enjoyed weekend interludes with good-looking women, present company included? Cash had told her that his staff left early on Fridays. Washe the reason they fled? Not fear of work interfering with the weekend, but to avoid being cornered into an affair that promised nothing more than a dead end?
   She mentally shook herself: she was imagining innuendoes that did not exist.
   Cash buzzed the receptionist and told her to send Christie in. She entered his office and it was obvious that he was coiled as tightly as a spring. She had the impression that something had gone awry between the time he had dropped her off at her apartment and this moment. She hoped it wasn’t personal discord, since she might be the target. On the other hand, she wouldn’t want Bobby Moreno on the receiving end of bad news, either.
   “I know you hoped to have this earlier, but I had a project that couldn’t be delayed.” She placed the folder on his desk.
   With a wave of his hand, he brushed away her apology.“I appreciate your coming at all. Especially since those notes weren’t your responsibility. I want to look them over before discussing the case with the detectives. Bobby’s mother arranged bail and he should be out of jail by now.” He picked up the folder and tapped it on his desk.
   “I’m sorry I was abrupt on the phone, but I’ve been on the run since five a.m. My paralegals must have had a heavy weekend, judging by the quality of their work this morning. And a new client walked in off the street, messed up my appointment schedule. Typical Monday. Amazing how much troubleotherwise law-abiding people can get into over the weekend. Sometimes I wish I had gone into some other field.”
   “I don’t believe that. Rumor is that Cash McCullough teethed on the scales of justice.”
   “I need sympathy, not wisecracks.” He stood up and moved to her side. He touched her cheek and tipped her chin toward his face. It wasn’t business as usual, she thought fleetingly.
   “You smell sweet,” he whispered. “You’re just the tonic for Monday-afternoon blues.”
   He grabbed her in a bear hug that whooshed the air from her. She burrowed her face against his chest and shut her eyes. She welcomed the wave of sensation that rolled through her body. Just beyond the door a receptionist, paralegals, and an investigator were enmeshed in workaday roles. Yet here, in Cash’s arms, the rest of the world kept its distance.
   He released her, and ran his fingertips along her cheek, pushing a slip of hair behind her ear.“I’d better let you go. If I hold you a minute longer, I might not be able to turn away, and I expect a client any minute.”
   “I…have work, too…”
   “Perhaps we can meet in Sausalito for dinner and a sail later on.”
   “I don’t think that’s a good idea.”
   “Why not?” He sounded wounded.
   “Because I know that you are going to be tied up way past dinnertime.”
   “You’re probably right. That was wishful thinking on my part.”
   Later, in her apartment, Christie sat with Tosha on her lap and a cup of peppermint tea in her hand. She aimed the remote at the television and turned on the news.
   She stroked Tosha’s soft fur absentmindedly while her thoughts turned to Cash. It had been heavenly to feel the strength of his arms around her. What could she expect from the relationship? A short-term romance? Or something deeper? There was chemistry between them, but that didn’t surprise her. She wanted morethan raging hormones, however, she wanted stability. She wanted love.
   No matter what she wanted, right now she needed to divert her thoughts away from Cash. She couldn’t sit there mooning over him like a besotted teenager.
   Remembering the painting she’d bought in Sedona, she nudged Tosha from her lap. She eyed the protective wrappings. Although bolt cutters would have been handier, she ground through the thick cord with scissors, then tore the paper from the picture. She admired it for a few minutes before deciding where to hang it.
   She removed an inexpensive framed poster from the dining-room wall and replaced it with the painting. Christie liked the artist’s style, the dramatic splashes of color. She could almost feel the energy of the red-tailed hawk soaring above the desert.It must be exciting to be able to paint with such fire, she thought. In high school, Christie’s art teacher had told her that she had talent, perhaps not enough talent to become a successful artist, but enough to succeed as an art teacher or gallery curator. Christie’s last bout with art had been during her sophomore year in college; she’d never touched a paintbrush after that. Therehad never been time.
   Margo was right, a couple of weekend classes would probably put her back on track. It wouldn’t be difficult to enroll in a class through the San Francisco Recreation and Park department.
   Later, at the conclusion of the ten o’clock news, Christie climbed into bed. She tucked the blanket around her shoulders and curled into a fetal position. Tosha bunched up into the backs of Christie’s knees. Closing her eyes did not stop her from thinking of Cash. Her thoughts were like a video set on fast-forward, racing through her mind.
   The telephone rang and she lunged for it. Tosha let out a yowl and jumped off the bed. The telephone fell to the floor and bounced once. In the darkness, Christie did a long-arm reach, groping along the carpet until she located the phone.“Hello!”
   “Christie? What happened? My ear is ringing.”
   “I dropped the phone. Why are you calling so late?”
   “I miss you.”
   She wished that she could still the tremors that bristled along her body.
   “I had looked forward to a sail together.”
   “As I told you, I have a busy schedule tomorrow. I’ll have to be up earlier than usual, so I couldn’t stay out late tonight.”
   “Couldn’t you have spared the time for just a little sail? I was all alone out there.”
   “Oh, Cash.” She was becoming exasperated. “It would not have been a little sail, and it would have been a very late dinner.”
   “Sounds good to me. Great, in fact.”
   “For someone who is a workaholic, perhaps.”
   “I’m wounded. But I understand, and to prove it, I’ll give you a rain check. When you’re in a better mood.”
   “I’m not in a bad mood, I’m just tired. You did wake me up, you know.”
   “I’m sorry. I wanted to hear your voice.”
   “I accept your apology. Now I’m going to say good night. I have to tackle a full caseload tomorrow, and I’m not going to be up to it unless I get enough rest. I don’t have your boundless energy.”
   “I’m lonely, Christie.”
   “Cash McCullough, right now I don’t care how lonely you are. You told me how wonderful it was to live on a sailboat, how soothing. That the only distraction was an occasional sea lion or shark. Well, drop a line overboard and see what you can come up with for a late-night companion, because this lady is saying good night.” She set the phone down, punched her pillow, and burrowed her face into the groove her fist had created. He missed her. That knowledge lulled her to sleep.
   CHAPTER SEVEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Cash’s receptionist left a message with Christie’s office that a lease car had been arranged—it was not unusual for her to receive a loaner from a client when working a case. When she arrived at Cash’s office, Paige accompanied her to the underground garage. They stopped in front of a showroom-fresh, cranberry-red Mustang convertible. The car keys swung like wind chimes in the receptionist’s hand as she pointed to the car. “It’s all yours,” she said, without attempting to conceal a smile.
   Christie reached for the keys and hoped the flame of embarrassment that warmed her cheeks went unnoticed. She tried to convince herself that she only imagined the amusement on Paige’s face.
   “Cash asked if you would pick up a file at this address.” Paige handed her a slip of paper. “It’s relative to a case you’re working on for him.”
   Christie nodded, too disconcerted by the turn of events to reply.
   The traffic she encountered driving San Francisco’s busy streets made her consider the advantages of taking a taxi. The ordeal escalated during her search for a parking space. Finally, she gave in, nosed the convertible into a multilevel garage, and grudgingly took the parking tag from the attendant.
   It was a fifteen-minute walk to her destination, and Christie was beginning to suspect that Cash had given her the snappy-looking car to cajole her into providing messenger service. She resented the time away from her lab work that this sojourn caused.
   After picking up the file, she headed back to Market Street. Dodging the rush of fender-bender traffic, her disposition continued to deteriorate. She was now convinced that it would have made more sense to take a taxi.
   She parked in the underground garage and rode the elevator to Cash’s office. Another appraising glance from the receptionist made her temper flare. Was the woman intimating that the flashy car signified more than a professional courtesy?
   “Is he in?” She purposely did not use Cash’s name. They both knew who “he” was.
   “I’ll buzz to see if he’s free.”
   “Don’t bother, Paige. If he found it necessary to have me chase across town to pick up these papers, they must be top priority.” Buoyed by her assertiveness, Christie marched forward, perfunctorily rapped on the door, and charged inside. Cash looked up, startled. A questioning frown crossed his face, but quickly faded. He leaned back in his chair and laced his hands behind his head.
   “You don’t have to thank me; it’s the least I can do to make things easier for you while you work with me.”
   Christie cocked her head to the side.“Easier? Thank you? What are you talking about?”
   “The car.”
   “The car! I hate to sound ungrateful, but I would rather put taxi fare on my invoice. A flashy car tends to compromise my position here.”
   “Compromise your position?” Cash laughed. “The Mustang didn’t cost any more than a four-door sedan, so I thought…”
   “That I’d be thrilled to have a wild horse in my stable? It’s a thoughtful gesture, but I don’t appreciate the strings attached to it.”
   “What do you mean?”
   “I can hardly keep up with my own work without having messenger service added to the job description.”
   “I’m sorry you think of it that way,” Cash said. “I was caught in a bind and since you are working on the case, it never occurred to me that you would mind.”
   “You didn’t give me an opportunity to mind.”
   “Slow down! I apologize; I didn’t realize it would be an imposition. It won’t happen again.”
   She sat down and brushed her hair from her face.“It’s been a rough day. I do appreciate the car, even though I think it put Paige’s antenna up.”
   Cash smiled. The lines around his eyes crinkled and he looked boyish. Her irritation evaporated. He leaned forward and she watched his dark eyes focus on her face. She tried to avoid eye contact, tried to remain serious. He reached toward her and she leaned backward.
   “The file,” he said. A smile teased his lips. “All I want is the file. You didn’t think I was going to make a pass at you?”
   “I’m glad that you view your office as a place of business and not a pleasure palace.”
   “I’m flexible,” he retorted. “When the timing is right, we can toss the rules to the wind.” He plucked a carnation from the bud vase on his desk and pressed it into her hand.
   Twirling the carnation around, she tried to come up with a smart retort. Finding none, she settled on a friendly good-bye and left.
   When she returned to her office, she found it difficult to concentrate. Her thoughts were at odds. Uppermost was a nagging guilt about questioning Cash’s motive for giving her a car. They both knew that driving in San Francisco was impractical. The city had efficient public transportation, rush-hour traffic was nerve-racking, and parking was at a premium. When a case necessitated a great deal of time and travel, or if she had to set up her equipment on site rather than drive her own car, she often accepted the use of a courtesy car. Nothing quite so trendy as Cash’s offering, however.
   Under other circumstances, she would have accepted the car without question. A few things made this situation different, though. She did not want to add food to the office grapevine. She had hoped to keep their relationship visibly low-key, but now that he had given her the Mustang, that was near impossible.
   Her attraction to Cash kept growing. The chemistry between them sizzled, and although she knew she could get burned, she was willing to chance it. Not only did he excite her emotionally, it was exhilarating to be with someone who spoke the same language—caseloads, crime, and investigation.
   Christie rested her chin on her hand and forced her attention back to the tape recorder. She had to concentrate on her work or she would not have the report ready as promised.
   It took the better part of the afternoon to complete the job. The technical data, including enlargements of the holographic will and a random selection of diary pages, showed no disparity in the handwriting. The soon-to-be-rejected heirs would cry foul when they received their copy of the report, but she had no doubt that her account would hold up to courtroom scrutiny.
   She stood and stretched, rolling her shoulders to ease the stiffness. Before leaving the office, she called the messenger service and requested express delivery. Stepping into the snappy convertible lifted her spirits. She could not repress a smile. Cash had been sweet to surprise her. She had given him a grudgingthanks only because she had been thrown off guard. It seemed obvious that he’d paid a premium for the convertible compared to the rate on a standard midsize vehicle and, admittedly, the Mustang was more fun than the economy cars she’d driven on previous out-of-area assignments.
   The following day, driving down Union, a large advertisement in a shop window caught her attention. She pulled over, found a parking space, threw a handful of coins in the meter, and went inside the store. A clerk assisted her and within half an hour her selection was complete.
   Arriving at Cash’s office building, she parked in the underground garage and rode the elevator to the lobby. She asked John, the young man at the information kiosk, if he could assist her. They rode the elevator back to the parking garage. He hauled the boxes out of the Mustang’s trunk and stacked them on a dolly. A bulging plastic bag bumped against Christie’s hip as she followed. A few minutes later, she walked into Cash’s office; John pushed the dolly behind her.
   “Uh, can I help you, Christie?” the receptionist asked.
   “Thank you, Paige, but John has it under control.” She nodded toward the young man. “Is Cash here?”
   “No, but I expect he’ll check in before long. Did you want to leave that?”
   “We’ll just take it into his office, if it’s okay with you,” Christie replied.
   It was obvious that the receptionist was curious; Christie smiled to herself.
   In Cash’s office John placed the larger box on the desk. “I’ll help you unwrap these and collapse the boxes and bring them downstairs.” He pulled a Swiss Army Knife from his pocket and pulled the blade open. With a swift slide along the top of the box, he slit the packing tape, then carefully removed the contents.
   “Where does this go?” he asked.
   “If you could put it on this shelf, I’d appreciate it.”
   When John finished breaking down the boxes, he put them on the dolly and pushed it toward the door.
   “I couldn’t have managed without your help, John. You’re a regular knight in shining armor.”
   John’s face reddened slightly. Obviously no one had bestowed knighthood on him before.
   Christie took an empty water pitcher from the desk and refilled it in Cash’s private bathroom. Twenty minutes later, the project was completed and she admired her handiwork. A gap in Cash’s huge bookcase had caught her attention a few days ago. There were so many books, and yet so much empty space. She hoped he would be pleased with her gift.
   A few minutes later, Paige rapped on the door, and then opened it a crack.“Christie? Cash is on his way over from the courthouse; he asked if you would wait for him.”
   The receptionist stepped closer until she was inside the room.“Ohhh,” she murmured, staring at the aquarium ensconced between a set of maroon leather–bound law books.
   “It’s beautiful. What a lovely idea.” She walked up to the bookcase and peered into the tank.
   “I thought he needed a stress-buster, and they say that watching aquarium fish is relaxing. I hope he likes it.” All of a sudden she was assaulted by a chink in her confidence.
   “Of course he will.”
   Christie sat in the big leather wing chair and waited. A couple of times she contemplated bolting. But the desire to see Cash’s reaction won out and she stayed.
   She didn’t have long to wait. She could hear Paige telling Cash that Christie was indeed in his office. The timbre of his voice brought Christie’s insecurity to the forefront. She wished she could curl up in a ball and disappear. What a silly idea, giving him a fish tank. Maybe he liked the empty spot in his bookcase, perhaps he had planned it that way. Where had she gotten the crazy notion to invade his private space? He was going to be furious with her, she was convinced of that. Absolutely furious!
   The door swung open and she stood to face her fate.
   “Paige said you have a surprise for me.”
   Leave it to his receptionist to spill the beans.“I…yes, I—” She couldn’t get the words out of her mouth. She swallowed; she was sure the gulp could be heard all the way down Market Street. How had she put herself in this predicament? How presumptuous of her!
   “Is anything wrong?” He moved closer and reached for her hand. The warmth of his grip suffused her with a jolt of confidence, and she nodded toward the bookcase.
   He turned, released her hand, and stared at the aquarium. He did not say a word. She wanted to run, fly from his office, and find sanctuary at her desk, or in her apartment. Right now she would even welcome cat hair on her dark pants, just to know she was in familiar quarters with Tosha affectionately clinging to her legs.
   “I can’t believe this,” he said.
   Christie looked at her feet, unable to bring her gaze to meet his. He hated it. Absolutely hated the aquarium. If only he realized her motive before passing judgment.
   “This is fabulous.” He moved closer to the tank. “I don’t know much about tropical fish, but I recognize this one. It’s an angelfish, isn’t it?”
   “Yes.” She gulped. “They are so regal-looking, I thought it would add class to the tank. There are a couple of neon tetras”—she pointed—“and a pair of black mollies. I didn’t want to get too many fish, because I thought you might enjoy choosing the rest yourself.”
   Cash put an arm around her and drew her close.“This is a great present, and I’m certainly not going to give you the old cliché ‘you really shouldn’t have,’ because I’m glad that you did.”
   “It’s supposed to be soothing. Watching them, I mean.”
   “I could use some of that.”
   “You could use alot of that,” she replied.
   “Let me take you to dinner, and maybe you can come up with more ideas on how to soothe me.” He gave her a mischievous grin.
   “I’d love to go to dinner, but I warn you, my relaxation techniques end with this project.”
   “What a disappointment.” He pulled her firmly into the circle of his arms and brought his mouth down on hers. She felt the heat of his kiss, and she responded. He drew apart from her just long enough to say, “Umm, I think I just found the best secret weapon against stress, and I’m all for it.”
   “Behave yourself, or dinner’s off.”
   “I can’t promise, but I’ll try,” he teased.
   “I’ll bet,” Christie retorted. “Still, dinner does sound like a pleasant idea. Where are you taking me?”
   “Seafood? Steak? Chinese? Italian? What’s your choice? In food, that is.”
   “A nice dish of pasta with prawns and scallops sound good to you?” she asked.
   “I have just the place, but I hope the romantic atmosphere doesn’t tempt me to break my promise.”
   “For good food, I’ll take a chance,” she replied.
   On their way out, they said good night to Paige, who was already packing her tote bag, ready to make a quick exit.“Nice aquarium,” she remarked, with a wink toward Christie.
   “Yes,” said Cash. “Quite a surprise. Miss Hamilton never fails to amaze me.”
   She gave him a gentle elbow in the ribs, and he tried to contain his laughter. Christie knew that tomorrow, by midmorning, the entire staff would know about the fish tank. And she was sure that by the end of the day the story would have grown considerably.
   Dinner was delightful. Afterward, they walked through Ghirardelli Square. They stopped in the chocolate shop and Cash bought them each a truffle.
   “It’s a good thing we didn’t have dessert,” Christie said. “Pure chocolate, through and through, is quite a treat.”
   “Especially when it is Ghirardelli chocolate,” Cash agreed.
   “Probably has more calories than our entire dinner.”
   “Don’t spoil the mood,” he said.
   They walked outside to where a small crowd had gathered around a mime dressed like a clown. A starched red-and-white ruffled collar framed his chalk-white face. His eyebrows arched in a frozen question mark, while his mouth was painted crimson and formed a surprised oval. His white-gloved hands moved slowly until he reached into a breast pocket and removed a large white handkerchief. He shook it into a parachute-like shape and blew his nose mutely while his body heaved up and down with the effort. Rubbing his nose in a final gesture, he then extended his hand and offered the handkerchief to Christie. She stepped back quickly and raised her palms in refusal. The crowd laughed. Realizing the humor, she joined the laughter.
   A few steps away, a magician waved a traditional black wand over a top hat to draw spectators. He was appropriately suited in an old tux, the fabric shiny with wear. They stopped and watched him ceremoniously pull a bouquet of brightly colored feather flowers from the hat. He leaned over and tickled a young boy under the chin with the bouquet. The boy let go of his father’s hand and grabbed at the feathers, but the magician was too fast. He pressed the flowers under one arm, clapped his hands, and when he raised both arms into the air the bouquet was gone. There was scattered applause. The magician stepped forward, leaned over to say something to the child, and in a sweep of his hands, the feathers appeared once again. The applause was more enthusiastic this time, and the magician bowed to his audience.
   Farther on, a young woman dressed in layers of flowing rainbow-colored chiffon spoke to passersby. As Christie and Cash approached, she touched Christie’s arm.
   “Have your palm read, madam?” she asked. “See what’s in the future?” In an effort to gain Christie’s attention, she grasped her wrist. Startled, Christie drew away.
   “Be a sport,” Cash said. “Make the lady happy.”
   Christie had no intention of giving in to voodoo, but his remark sounded like a dare and she did not want to appear wimpy. She put her hand out and the woman cradled it in hers.
   “Umm…” With her forefinger the woman traced the lines on Christie’s palm. “I see romance, adventure, mystery.” She paused a moment to look into Christie’s eyes. “There will be questions, important questions, but you will seek and find the answers.”
   The fortune teller released Christie’s hand and looked at Cash expectantly. He withdrew a bill from his wallet and pressed it into the woman’s hand. Her head bobbing up and down, she thanked him profusely, and Christie knew that he had been generous.
   “Romance, adventure, and mystery,” Cash repeated. “Interesting, but I’m disappointed I wasn’t included in the mix. You know: tall, dark, and handsome stranger?”
   “First of all, you don’t fit the ‘dark’ description. Secondly, she uses an easy formula that I’ll bet every woman is pleased to hear,” Christie countered. “Not very original.”
   Cash reached for her hand and squeezed it.“Something to look forward to, though, wouldn’t you say? The romance part, I mean.” He pulled her close in a spontaneous move that almost made her lose her balance.
   A fortune teller, a balmy San Francisco night, a crescent moon, and an attractive man, she mused. No wonder her heart was hammering in her chest.
   CHAPTER EIGHT
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Christie could hardly believe she had signed up for an art class. She had taken Margo’s rhapsodizing about painting to heart, and had plunked down $150 on art supplies, and an equal amount on class fees. What had she been thinking? There was no time for such frivolous pursuits.
   She slammed the car door and tried to balance her easel, folding stool, and paint box while she trudged through the parking lot to the amphitheater. About a dozen people were ahead of her; most had set up their equipment and looked eager to get started.
   She removed the clip from her hair, ran her fingers through it, and stuck the clip back in place. She looked around, checking out the other people. Was she the only rank beginner? Their easels and wooden cases were smeared with old paint, while hers were pristine. She put the case on the ground and set up the easel. Others were already squeezing paint onto their palettes.
   The instructor, Scott Cooper, introduced himself and told the class what he planned to cover during the morning session.“Before you put paint on your canvas, study your subject. Take time to know what you want to say with your paintbrush and palette knife. Is the foreground interesting or unimportant? What textures touch you emotionally? You want to paint what you feel, not just what you see. If you are only interested in reproducing a scene, a camera will do a better job.”
   Time passed quickly. The instructor demonstrated techniques and lectured on mixing colors. He walked from easel to easel and gave each student advice on their work. Christie was pleased with the picture that was developing on her canvas. It would not win a ribbon, but you could tell it was a fountain surrounded by red geraniums. She took the instructor’s advice and did not mimic a camera. A black cat was dozing beside the flowers, not in reality, but in her mind and through her brushstrokes.
   By the end of the day, she was close to finishing the painting. She stood back and appraised her work. It was pleasing. A few more hours at home and that would be it. The instructor walked over and examined her picture.
   “Next weekend we’ll be painting in Big Sur. The coast, cliffs, and mist are an artist’s dream. Accommodations are available at the campground and at the lodge. I hope you’ll join us.”
   “I don’t know if I’m ready for that.”
   “Don’t sell yourself short, Christie. Your work shows promise.”
   She was pleased with the instructor’s approval. Painting was relaxing. It also gave her a feeling of accomplishment apart from her job.
   At home later, after she spooned a small portion of canned cat food into Tosha’s dish, she called Margo on the kitchen phone. “I’m so excited,” she said. “The instructor thinks I have promise, and Margo, I love painting! I’m going to Big Sur next week for a two-day workshop.”
   “Well, I guess I’m going to have competition,” Margo teased.
   “Oh, sure. I can tell that you’re worried.”
   “Actually, I’m jealous. If I weren’t so far along in my pregnancy, I’d fly out and join you. Big Sur is a popular location for artists and photographers. I hope to get there one of these days.”
   After Christie said good-bye, she bent to pat Tosha on the back. It was obvious by the way the cat wove in and out between Christie’s legs that she felt neglected.
   “Don’t be temperamental. You know I love you, Tosha. Soon as I fix a cup of tea, you can sit on my lap.” Tosha meowed as though she completely understood what Christie said.
   After brewing a cup of mint tea, she settled onto the couch and pulled the blue afghan over her lap. Tosha favored the woolen blanket and Christie gave in to her preferences.Picky cat, she mused as she ruffled Tosha’s neck hair. Tosha tilted her head and stared at Christie. “Okay, go back to sleep. Sorry I bothered you. I swear, I don’t know if you curl up on my lap because you love me, or if you think I’m a piece of upholstered furniture.”
   It had been a long day, and she had turned down a chance to go to dinner with Cash so that she could focus on the first day of the art class. It had seemed sensible at the time, but now she felt quite alone. Perhaps she had been hasty in turning down the invitation. They could have gone out for a late dinner. But she didn’t feel confident enough about their relationship to start calling the shots. Besides, she had to admit shewas tired.
   They hadn’t seen each other in four days. Cash had been tied up with Moreno’s case and then he’d attended a seminar in San Diego, with a side trip to see his family. She missed him.
   When he phoned the following evening, her heart soared. But it was business, not pleasure, that had initiated the call. The detective he had hired to locate Elliot had contacted him with a hot lead. A Benson lived in a seniors’ gated community near the American River. Cash asked her to accompany him when he contacted Benson. He thought that a woman’s presence might soften the man if he was determined not to reveal Elliot’s whereabouts.
   At nine o’clock Monday morning, she and Cash were on the road. Their destination was a two-hour drive from San Francisco, an hour from the Marin post office where the letter had been mailed. Cash was sure they had the right man. Benson had an unlisted phone number, so they were taking a chance on finding him at home.
   “We’re almost there,” Cash said as he drove down the freeway off-ramp.
   Christie glanced at the dashboard GPS screen. It indicated that they had fewer than three miles to go before they reached the turn onto Oak Tree Lane.“I hope Benson’s home. It would be a shame to waste half a day tracking him down and then come up empty-handed.”
   “Keep the good thoughts, Christie. Keep the good thoughts.”
   A few minutes later they were parked in front of a wrought-iron gate. Cash scanned the names listed on the call box. He jabbed the button for Benson’s unit and waited. It took a minute or two before a voice answered.
   Cash identified himself and told Benson he was a friend of the Parkers. Benson gave him the code, the gate rolled away, and they drove through. The complex was typical of retirement developments: curved streets, attractive landscaping, a nine-hole golf course with a pond and ducks. No one in sight appeared to be younger than sixty.
   At 450 Oak Tree Lane, Cash pulled into the driveway and parked. He and Christie hurried up the walkway. The man who answered the doorbell was a youthful-looking sixty-five or thereabouts—Elliot’s age. Tanned, he appeared to spend a great deal of time outdoors. Probably still fished; maybe played some golf or tennis.
   Cash introduced Christie and himself. Benson invited them in and asked if they’d like a cold drink. When they said yes, he scurried into the kitchen and was back in a few minutes with a couple of cans of root beer.
   “We’re trying to locate Elliot Parker.” Cash got right to the point. “His daughter, Margo, is having a difficult pregnancy, and having her dad come home would ease the strain. If you’d give us his address, we’d appreciate it.”
   “There’s no address to give. Elliot bought a fancy motor home and he’s on the move. He took up painting when he stayed with me last summer. You know, one of those classes they have in the rec room to keep us old-timers busy. He got pretty good at it, said it must run in the family. Next thingI knew, he loaded up the RV and said he was going to explore California and paint. He didn’t plan to stay in one place long.”
   Christie looked at Cash with dismay. They’d hit a brick wall. California was a big state; Elliot could be anywhere. Where would they start searching for him?
   “How about a cell phone number?” Cash said.
   “Can’t do it. Elliot told me that he doesn’t want anyone to contact him or know where he is. He’s pretty darn mad at his son-in-law. That was a nasty business.”
   “You’ve only heard one side of the story, Ben. Hal wasn’t to blame for Elliot losing his position as head of Parker Electronics. But that’s beside the point. Margo wants to find her dad before the baby is born. It’s important to her.”
   “Tell you what I’ll do: I’ll try and contact Elliot and see if I can break through that thick head of his and get him to relent. A grandchild—that’s worth mending fences.”
   “We’d appreciate that, and remember, time is running out.”
   “The only problem is, Elliot likes to paint on location. Doesn’t work from slides like a lot of artists do. So I might not hear from him for a while, and his cell phone may be out of range. But I’ll try.”
   “That’s all we can ask, Ben. That’s all we can ask.”
   Before they got in the SUV, Cash put his hands on Christie’s shoulders. “I’m glad you came; you took the edge off the meeting. You gave up a day at work and I’m sure that puts you behind. You’re selfless, Christie. That’s one of the things I admire about you.”
   One of the things he admired? What were the others? Would she have preferred that he tell her that she was pretty? Or smart? Or…? Well, she would accept what was offered. It was, after all, a compliment. But what she really wanted to hear was how hefelt about her.
   The following Saturday morning, Christie was on her way to Big Sur for Scott Cooper’s class. The drive along the coast was serene. She wished Cash had come along, but there was a plus in the solitude: time to meditate on the pleasant twists and turns of her life, on her involvement with him. They shared many interests, and she could now add an affinity for the desert to the list, too. She loved Cash’s home in Sedona, enjoyed the winter warmth, the red rimrock, the artists’ colony. What a joy to share time between San Francisco’s bustle and Sedona’s lazy way of life.
   But she was getting ahead of herself. Their personal relationship did not equate to permanence. Still, working together gave them an opportunity to learn more about each other, personally and professionally. And a successful conclusion to his current case would push her reputation up another notch.
   She crossed Bixby Bridge, high above the Pacific. Bixby was one of the most-photographed bridges in the West, probably second only to Golden Gate. The bridge’s graceful concrete arches rose high above the arroyo and Bixby Creek below, and was a stone’s throw from the ocean.
   Reaching Big Sur Lodge, she checked in, found her cabin, and unpacked her gear. Fifteen minutes later she joined the group assembled outside the lobby and carpooled to a bluff above the beach.
   Cliffs rose majestically from the water, stretching through layers of silvered fog. Waves crashed against a ribbon of sand edged with spires of rock that had once been part of the cliff. Gulls glided and swooped, their sharp eyes searching the sea for tidbits.
   Serenity was the first thought that passed through Christie’s mind. She was enraptured by the serenity.Is there a more beautiful scene anywhere? she wondered. How could she dare to believe she could capture this awesome sight on canvas?
   A couple of students had already set up their easels. Christie was rooted to the spot, overcome by the strength and beauty of this stretch of coast. In all the years she had lived in San Francisco, she had never visited Big Sur. Too busy with college, too busy with her career. But here the wordstoo busy did not exist. The environment invited you to linger, to absorb.
   “Christie, are you going to paint?” The instructor interrupted her thoughts, her mood.
   “Yes, of course,” she answered. “I was admiring the view.” That was an understatement of the tenth magnitude.
   “It is spectacular. Be sure to take a lot of pictures,” he instructed, “for reference when you are not painting on location.”
   She chose a spot to set up her equipment. Still, she hesitated; the wonders of the view captured her mind and heart. She wanted to drink in the atmosphere before she started to paint. Wanted to experience the emotions that she would try to inscribe on her canvas.
   Before she knew it, it was time for lunch. She stretched her arms over her head. Her neck and shoulders were a bit stiff. She slipped a sandwich and soda out of a brown paper bag. The instructor walked over and studied her work.
   “Your painting is coming along, Christie. I like what you’ve done with the palette knife. Works well on the cliffs.”
   The effect was pleasing, and she was glad that she had paid attention to the demonstration the previous week.
   At five o’clock it was time to pack up. She zipped her windbreaker against the chill sea air.
   Back at the lodge, she ordered a latte and sat by the fire to chase the ocean chill from her bones. She wrapped her cold fingers around the steaming cup. A couple of other artists were sprawled on the couches and chairs, drinks in hand. It had been a good day for painting, and enthusiasm was reflected in their chatter.
   A desk clerk noticed Christie and brought her a slip of paper. It was a message from Cash:“I have an appointment in Monterey. I’ll swing by at seven. If you don’t have dinner plans, I’ll take you to the River Inn.”
   The anticipation of seeing Cash sent a shiver through her. It had been a week since she’d seen him. Seven days seemed like a lifetime. She looked at her watch: he would arrive in less than two hours. Her heart began to beat faster and she felt like a teenager anticipating a first date.
   In her cabin she stashed the artist’s supplies, showered, and put on clean jeans and a pullover. She still had an hour to wait. An hour! Perhaps a walk would take the edge off her nerves. She hiked down the hill and passed the lodge.
   Big Sur State Park was popular with campers and hikers. A river meandered through the grounds, lush with redwoods, on its way to the ocean. Campsites were scattered beneath the trees and along the river’s edge. Smoke curled into the air, spreading appetite-enhancing scents through the forest. A squirrel begged for leftovers at a picnic table. A pair of small girls tossed bits of food on the ground and the squirrel scurried from piece to piece, quite unafraid of humans.
   The walk gave Christie time to contemplate: neither artist nor photographer could fully capture the beauty of this area. Big Sur could easily become her favorite place. It encompassed dramatic surf, moody wisps of fog, and majestic redwoods. A spiritual ambiance, a renewal of soul, existed in the combination of forest and sea.
   Returning to the lodge, she spotted Cash’s SUV. She quickened her step into a semijog, eager to see him. He was perched on the split-rail fence, and when he spotted her, he stood and saluted a greeting. When she reached him, he wrapped his arms around her and held her tightly against his chest. He tilted her chin upward and gently kissed her on the lips.
   “I’ve missed you.”
   His words touched her soul.“I’ve missed you, too,” she said.
   They walked arm in arm to Cash’s SUV and drove a short distance to the River Inn. The restaurant was casual, the setting was as promised: the river meandered past the redwood deck. They chose an outdoor table and ordered the house specialty. They clinked their wineglasses as they toasted each other, the night, the sea, the river, and anything else that came to mind. They were happy to be together, and she felt almost giddy.
   Cash reached across the table and took her hand, linking his fingers in hers. His gaze was smoldering, and his touch hot. They spoke in quiet tones, shutting out the murmurs of other diners. It was the two of them, and only the two of them, that mattered, that existed in time and space. There was magic in the atmosphere, magic in the mood, and she wished the night could go on forever.
   But forever wasn’t realistic. When dinner was over, he drove her back to the lodge. With arms wrapped around each other’s waists, they walked to Christie’s cabin. Towering pines and redwoods were silhouetted against a full moon. Stars glistened in the velvety night. This was not an ordinary evening, Christiethought. She felt close to him, as if they had bridged a gap in their relationship, going from dating to something more. Something she could not quite define.
   Standing on her small deck, Cash crushed her to him for a good-night kiss that was deep and explosive. All of her nerve endings seemed to burst into flames. His hand combed through her hair and cupped her head. With a firm pressure, his other hand molded her body to his, as though they were one.
   He pushed her hair up, away from her face, and kissed her neck. She gasped at the pleasure the gesture evoked.
   “You’ve turned my world upside down, Christie. I’m glad we met.”
   Her emotions were racing, and she hardly trusted herself to speak.“I’m glad we met, too,” she whispered.
   She fumbled in her purse for the key to her room. With one arm around her waist, Cash took the key from her hand and opened the door. He kissed her once more, and she responded, wishing to be in his arms forever. He took a step forward, as if to sweep her into the room with him. Her eyes flashed open. She had boundaries, and they were on the brink of crossing the line.
   “I guess we’d better say good night here.” She detected a note of regret in his voice, even though he had adhered to his own hesitation. “Pleasant dreams, Christie.”
   He tipped an imaginary hat, kissed her hand in a gallant manner, and strode away. She watched until the taillights on his Jeep disappeared into the night. She knew without a doubt that she would have pleasant dreams.
   CHAPTER NINE
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   The following week went by slowly. Cash was out of town again, and Christie was at loose ends. Her calendar was clear, an unusual situation, and that meant time on her hands. Well, she couldn’t conjure up work. At least her bills were paid; she was ahead of herself financially.
   She decided a jog was in order. Digging into the gym bag she kept in the office, she yanked out her exercise clothes. She locked the door and, hopping from one foot to the other, stepped into black nylon shorts. She pulled a lightweight sleeveless cotton shirt over her head and smoothed it over her hips. The temperature was perfect for a run in Golden Gate Park, a short drive away.
   Ten minutes later she was on the trail, joining other joggers out for an afternoon run. A good run cleared the mind, she mused, breathing in the scent of eucalyptus. Ahead of her, a woman and dog trotted side by side. The brown-and-white sheltie’s rear wiggled in rhythm to its mistress’s pace. She wished she had a dog to accompany her, to give her a reason for committing herself to getting out more. Tosha, however, would not adjust easily to a new roommate.
   Coming toward Christie, a thirtyish man trailed a rottweiler. The barrel-chested animal tugged at the leash, almost dragging its owner. Christie gave the dog a wide berth, nearly twisting her ankle in an effort to move off the path.
   A trio of horseback riders urged their mounts into a canter on the bridle path. A horn blared and one horse broke rank and trotted sideways, tossing its head up and down, yanking the reins. The rider fought to control the horse and bring it back onto the path.
   Christie turned into the woods, away from the road. San Francisco was a busy city, but Golden Gate Park was a country gem. Its lush redwood, cypress, and eucalyptus groves seemed a hundred miles away from the bustle of cars and buses. And cell phones. She had purposely left hers in the car, determined not to be interrupted.
   It felt good to play hooky once in a while. One of the perks of being her own boss. With her luck her desk would be full of messages when she returned in the morning, but she was not going to dwell on that. The afternoon was hers and she would allow nothing to interfere.
   She swiped at the perspiration that beaded on her forehead and upper lip. She slowed to hear the notes of a song sparrow, then stopped to catch her breath. She bent over and spread her fingers across her knees; her hair fell forward, swinging back and forth. She hadn’t paced herself well, had pulled out all the stops in the first twenty minutes, and now her energy was depleted.
   It was a relief to spot a bench, and she dropped onto it. She draped an arm across the wood slats and watched people stroll or jog past. The sun was warm on her cheeks.
   She wondered what Cash was doing right now. Probably scrambling at top speed to accomplish five things at once. He had unflagging energy. She could never keep up with him. Her thoughts turned to Margo, as they often did lately. Margo seemed to possess a fierce protectiveness toward her unborn baby that would undoubtedly carry into motherhood. The miscarriages had cost her, in a sense of previous loss and her present anxiety.
   The relationship between Cash, Hal, and Margo was special. She envied people who did not allow longtime ties to be broken by distance.
   Christie had lost touch with most of her childhood friends. She had grown up in Seattle, and moving to San Jose in her junior year of high school had not been easy. Cliques had already been formed among classmates and she was excluded. After high-school graduation, her one close friend went to college in Colorado, fell in love, married, and never returned. The extent of their friendship now was a Christmas card with a year’s worth of news condensed into a few lines scribbled across the bottom. Each year the greeting became shorter, and Christie would not be surprised if the next one simply said, “Best wishes, Theresa.”
   Her only close gal friend in the city was a buyer for an upscale clothing boutique. They’d met a couple of years ago when Christie was modeling evening wear from Kathleen’s store at a breast cancer charity event. She enjoyed Kathleen’s quirky sense of humor and admired her community activism. They occasionally got together for a jog in the park, coffee at Starbucks, or a leisurely lunch on the weekend. She enjoyed their girl talk exchanges: updates on a new guy, new styles, vacations, and life’s ups and downs.
   A sharp bark shook her out of her reverie. A Jack Russell terrier pranced in front of a middle-aged woman, the dog’s leash tangling around her legs. Christie smiled as she watched the interaction. The dog owner tried to manage the terrier, but it, too, was hopelessly wound up in the long leash. Finally, the owner dropped the leash, and let the dog run itself out of the tangle. Now she had to trot to catch upwith the freed terrier. Her purse bounced against her thigh as she lunged forward, but it seemed a losing effort.
   The appearance of a golden retriever stopped the terrier in its tracks, giving the woman a chance to grab the leash. She yanked on it and sternly told the dog to heel. Christie smiled as she watched the terrier ignore its owner and dance on tiptoes to explore the new creature that loomed ahead. The other dog outweighed the Jack Russell by a good forty pounds, but that did not thwart the courageous little dog. The retriever’s owner gave the yapping terrier a wide berth, and finally the Jack Russell and its now-disheveled mistress moved on. Christie stood up and began the walk back to the car.
   At her apartment she stir-fried vegetables for a solitary dinner. Before she met Cash, she had been content to eat alone and spend evenings with only her cat for company. Now, without a partner, dinner was unappetizing, and the living room seemed lonely, lifeless. The only sound breaking the silence was a television voice and Tosha’s purring.
   She sighed. Love could be unsettling. Love? Where had that thought come from? Love: a strong word, fraught with commitment and anxiety, yet also hope and promise. Falling in love with Cash was a definite possibility. She felt as though she was standing on a precipice, ready to fall at any moment, and she hoped he would be there to catch her.
   Walking into her office the following morning, Christie knew that she would pay dearly for yesterday afternoon’s escape. A wad of “while you were gone” messages was lumped against her phone, and a note from Tom Gates indicated that he had a new case for her.
   One message caught her interest. It was from Scott Cooper. On the coming weekend, the Big Sur River Gallery was showing his work, followed by an informal reception.
   She did not have to look at her calendar to know there was an absence of engagements. Another drive to Big Sur would be scenic, relaxing, and she wanted to lend support to her teacher’s endeavors. Of course, it would be more enjoyable if Cash went along. Should she call him? Indecision niggled at her. She banged her fist on her desk.
   Tom Gates poked his head in the doorway.“Everything all right, Christie?”
   “Sorry, Tom. Just a bit of desk rage.”
   “Oh. Better here than on the road.” He smiled and retreated.
   Mayberage was an exaggeration. Frustration was more like it, she thought.Take a step forward, she told herself. Call and leave a message on his voice mail. Why not?
   She dialed Cash’s number and was put through to his voice mail. When she hung up, she put her hand on her chest and felt her heart beating unevenly. Why was she so anxious? It was a simple invitation. What had made her hesitant? Their night out in Big Sur had been romantic, intimate, and held out the possibility of a more serious relationship. At least that was how it had seemed at the time. Now she was unsure. Maybe the answer lay in her acknowledgment that Cash was more than a casual entry into her life. With other men a dinner or theater date now and then implied nothing more than a casual arrangement.She had nothing to lose. Now, too much was on the line.
   Later, in her apartment, she changed into baggy sweats and a T-shirt. Plans for the evening were simple: a pepperoni pizza from the freezer and a video. She peeked into the oven: the cheese and sauce were bubbling in readiness. She juggled the pizza onto a plate just as the phone rang. Balancing dinner and a soft drink to carry them to the coffee table, she put them down and reached for the phone.
   “Hello?”
   “Christie!” Cash’s voice thundered across the line. “I’ve penciled in Big Sur for this weekend.” She was amused by his directness: no prelude, simply a straightforward acceptance.
   “I’m glad you can make it.”
   “Let’s get together before that. The weekend is too far away.”
   Words she had longed to hear; he was eager to see her.
   “Tomorrow? Dinner?” he prodded. “I can pick you up at your office or at home.”
   “Yes.”
   “Yes, which? Home or office?”
   There was a hint of laughter in his voice.
   “Home.”
   “Great, I’ll be there around seven.”
   Christie said good-bye and put the phone down. Her pizza was cold, but after hearing Cash’s voice, she hardly tasted what she was eating. Her hopes soared. Cash wanted to see her, and he was too impatient to wait until the weekend. Of course, it might simply mean that he was used to having a full date book; going out with her filled the empty spaces.Where did that thought come from? she asked herself. She had been absent from the dating scene for so long, she was obviously feeling a touch of insecurity. She would push away negative thoughts by concentrating on the romantic moments: Big Sur, Cash’s touch, his kiss, and his tender words.
   The following day, Tom Gates brought an elderly woman, accompanied by a man who looked to be in his late twenties, into Christie’s office. The woman looked familiar.
   “Christie,” Tom said, “I’d like you to meet Gladys Farley and her son, Drew. I hope you have some time to talk to them.”
   “Of course. Won’t you sit down?” Christie nodded toward a pair of straight-backed chairs.
   Tom leaned against the doorway.“Mrs. Farley’s daughter, Danielle, has been missing for thirty years.” He extended a hand, palm up, toward the couple. “I’ll let them tell you the rest,” he said, then excused himself and left.
   Christie was intrigued by Gates’s lead-in. What could the Farleys possibly want from her? “Won’t you sit down? Tell me why you think I can help you.”
   “My daughter, Danielle, was kidnapped by her father in 1982,” Gladys Farley said. She dabbed at her eyes, as though the child had been snatched from her arms just today.
   “My husband George and I couldn’t have children, so we adopted. Danielle became our own the minute she was born.” She smiled at the memory. “She was the answer to our prayers, a sweet baby, a sweet child. Life was good.
   “Then George lost his job during the aerospace layoffs. He tried hard to get work, but there was nothing available in his field. He couldn’t get a lower-paying job, either, because he was overqualified, and no one would hire him. He became morose and started drinking. Our home environment became chaotic, and I was concerned about our daughter’s well-being. The only solution was a divorce.
   “I remarried a couple of years later, and Drew was born the following year. George was bitter, and became antagonistic and mean-spirited. He seemed to resent my being able to conceive a baby in my second marriage.
   “The following Memorial Day weekend, he and Danielle were to go to Santa Cruz. He asked me to pack extra clothes because the weather was unpredictable at the beach. When he did not return with Danielle Monday evening at seven thirty, I assumed they were caught in traffic. By nine o’clock I was worried; by ten I was frantic and I called the police. When I hung up the phone, it hit me that George had run off with our daughter.”
   “Where do I fit in?” Christie asked.
   “Mother received a letter from a woman who claims to be Danielle,” her son said.
   “That’s wonderful.” Christie caught an almost imperceptive shake of Drew’s head. He put his hand on his mother’s, which were primly folded in her lap, with the hankie crushed between them.
   “Drew doesn’t believe the woman is my daughter.”
   Christie turned to Drew.“Why?”
   “Mother recently gave a large grant to a school in Oakland, and there was major publicity about it. The reporter brought up the kidnapping. I think whoever wrote the letter saw the article and is trying to cash in. Almost every time my mother makes the news, she is contacted by a rash of phony Danielles.”
   Now Christie realized why the woman looked familiar. She had seen the write-up and accompanying photos in theChronicle. Mrs. Farley was an astute businesswoman who had parlayed her late husband’s company into the ranks of the Fortune 500. She was known to share generously with the community at large.
   “So you think this may be a scam?”
   “Yes,” Drew answered. “The woman’s name is Dani Shepherd. She claims that her father’s widow found a series of newspaper articles about Mother in a desk drawer, and recalled a conversation she’d had with her husband a few days before he died. Supposedly, he told her that Dani’s motherhad married into money. She claims she put the pieces together and came up with us.”
   “But what if Daniis Danielle? I would give anything to see my daughter again,” Mrs. Farley said.
   “I can understand that, Mrs. Farley, but Tom Gates is the man you want to work with, not me. I’m a questioned document examiner, not a detective.”
   “None of the detectives over the years have turned up anything. George undoubtedly changed his name, and probably his appearance, to avoid detection. You’re our last chance. We have two letters from Dani, and Danielle’s kindergarten schoolwork. Mr. Gates thought you could compare the writing.”
   “Do you have the schoolwork with you?” Christie asked.
   Mrs. Farley opened a large purse and drew out a sheaf of papers. The first two papers were crisp and new; the others were folded into quarters and showed the effects of age and continual handling. Christie could visualize Mrs. Farley keeping them safely tucked away in a jewelry box, and reverently taking them out to read over and over.
   “Danielle’s disappearance left a hole in my heart.” Mrs. Farley turned toward her son. “If God hadn’t given me Drew, I would have shriveled up and died.”
   Drew squeezed his mother’s hand. Christie had wondered if Drew felt threatened by the possibility of a sibling emerging from the past. Now she sensed that he was trying to prevent his mother’s heart from breaking twice.
   Christie spread the papers across the desk. This was going to be a trying examination. Three decades divided the handwriting. Thirty years of change. She was looking at the scrawled printing of a child and the smooth script of an adult. There would be no fast answers, if any, and so much was at stake.
   “Can you help us?” Mrs. Farley asked.
   “I’m sure you can appreciate that this is complicated by time, but I’ll try.”
   Drew and Mrs. Farley stood and thanked Christie before leaving the office. At the doorway, Mrs. Farley turned, tears glistening in her eyes.
   “This means a great deal to me, to us.” She scraped Drew’s jacket sleeve with her fingertips. “My lost child returning…”
   Drew put an arm around his mother and gently nudged her into the hallway.
   A few minutes later, Tom Gates stepped into Christie’s office.
   “What do you think?” he asked.
   “A miracle, if this is her daughter. A heartless scam if it isn’t. And Mrs. Farley deserves better.”
   “She certainly does. For years, Mrs. Farley has championed the smaller schools on the outskirts of San Francisco, the ones that don’t usually attract patrons,” Tom said. “She provided funds for books, tutors, and additional teachers, and set up college scholarships. That’s what is so unique about her brand of charity. She has taken up the cause of the underdog.”
   “What have you learned about Dani Shepherd?”
   “It’s a dead end. Shepherd could be anyone. Nothing links her to Mrs. Farley, or contradicts a relationship, either. She doesn’t have any childhood photos to compare with Mrs. Farley’s meager few. It’s a puzzle, perhaps unsolvable.”
   ‘“It’s also a challenge. Thanks for sending the Farleys to me, Tom.”
   “You better hold that thanks until you complete the job. You may end up cursing me for all the curves this case throws your way.” Tom left Christie to mull over his words.
   She read the first letter Dani had written, a summary of the information the stepmother had given her. The second was more personal, a reply to Mrs. Farley’s letter. The content of one paragraph caught Christie’s eye, and she slowed to absorb the words.
   “I knew that I was adopted. Each night when my mother tucked me into bed, she would tell me that she and my father had chosen me, and that made me special. When I no longer had a mother to tuck me in, I kept her in my heart. When I was lonely or sad, I would conjure her spirit and imagine her comforting embrace. Now, I must wrap myself around the possibility that my mother is no longer a spirit, dwelling only in my mind, but a real person.”
   Christie rubbed her eyes with the side of her hand, feeling the tears that dampened her cheek. Dani’s words sounded sincere. Had her mother’s love been torn from her when she was a child? Or was the letter a hoax, the cruelest imaginable?
   CHAPTER TEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Traffic had been brutal on the way home. There wasn’t much time to spruce up. A fast shower and towel-dried hair was the best she could do. She slipped on crisply tailored slacks and a Hawaiian-print blouse. Time always seemed to get away from her. Cash would arrive any minute and she would not even have a chance to use the blow-dryer.
   Precisely at seven, a knock at the door signaled his arrival. Christie looked around the room, making sure nothing was out of place, and nervously finger-picked her damp hair. She opened the door and stepped into Cash’s outstretched arms.
   His embrace was firm, drawing her to him so tightly the buttons on his jacket pressed into her chest. She gently pulled away, fearful he would detect the pounding of her heart. She did not want her feelings to be so easily read.
   “I have to get a sweater,” she said. “Why don’t you sit down for a moment?”
   Cash leaned against the doorjamb as though considering her suggestion. A smile played on his lips. He closed the door behind him, walked across the living room, and sat in a large upholstered chair, which seemed to fit him.
   Christie hurried into the bedroom, pulled a lightweight sweater from a dresser drawer, and arranged it around her shoulders. She peered in the mirror one last time to make sure nothing was out of place. Tosha was on the bed observing her. When Christie left the room, the cat jumped down onto the floor and followed.
   In the living room, Tosha padded past Christie and stopped just to the side of Cash. She looked up at him, inspecting him, perhaps, and, with determined steps, brushed against Cash’s legs, her tail wrapping around his ankle like a hook. Then she turned around and repeated the procedure. She walked to where Christie stood, looked up and gave a satisfied yowl. “I think you’ve been accepted,” Christie said. “Tosha is selective in who she marks.”
   “I’ll take that as a compliment,” Cash said, “but I thought your cat didn’t like me.”
   Christie laughed softly, amused by his consternation.“She’s entitled to change her mind.”
   “Typical female.”
   “Be careful. You wouldn’t want to be branded sexist.”
   “Never,” he said. A slight smirk tugged at his mouth. “Let’s be on our way before I say anything more damaging.”
   At the restaurant Christie told Cash about the Farleys.“I felt such empathy for her. Imagine having your child snatched away, and after you have learned to live with the knowledge that you will never see her again, a specter of the past appears.”
   “It sounds like you have doubts about this Dani person.”
   “You have to admit that after thirty years of absence, the chances of a happy reunion are sketchy. I don’t want Mrs. Farley to be hurt again. She seems like such a gentle person, very vulnerable.”
   “She runs an empire. How vulnerable can she be?”
   “I don’t think going up against big business and corporate raiders is the same as dealing with the loss of a child.”
   “You’re right. And Tom Gates’s investigation hit a brick wall?”
   “That’s what he said. And you know that Tom is one of the best.”
   “What about her birth certificate or other credentials?”
   “Dani’s birth certificate doesn’t match Mrs. Farley’s daughter’s, but we both know that false documents aren’t difficult to come by.”
   “I work with a couple of hotshot detectives, but I wouldn’t want to step on Tom’s toes by siccing them on your subject.”
   “I’m afraid they wouldn’t uncover anything Tom hasn’t already. Do you realize what a burden that puts on me?”
   “Don’t beat yourself up over this, Christie. The evidence will show the way.”
   “Even when it’s thirty years old? I can’t compare a kindergartner’s primitive printing with a mature adult’s writing. I wish there was something else to go on.”
   “Perhaps you should talk to this woman. Probe a little. Maybe the Farleys, and Tom, too, have missed something.”
   Christie pondered his words. Both Tom and the Farleys might have missed something.“You’re right; first thing tomorrow I’m going to call Dani Shepherd and dig for a clue.”
   “Just like Sherlock Holmes,” he teased.
   “Thanks for being a good sport about my bringing work to the dinner table. I’m sure you would rather talk about other, more interesting, things.”
   He reached across the table and covered her hand with his.“Whether it’s work or personal, everything about you interests me. I want to know you on every level, understand you completely.”
   She was momentarily at a loss for words. He was speaking of intimacy, not physical, but emotional, which was more intense.
   “Christie?” He wrapped his hand around hers and she could feel the heat of their skin meshing. He leaned toward her and his breath made the candlelight flicker. She looked into his eyes for answers, but saw only questions. There was only one she needed to address: Was he falling in love with her?
   After breakfast the next morning, Christie called Dani Shepherd. The phone was answered on the second ring with a breathless,“Hello.”
   Christie introduced herself.“Mrs. Farley is cautiously excited to hear from you, Dani. After all these years, the possibility of having located her missing daughter is overwhelming. The Farleys hired me to compare your handwriting with Danielle’s. However, the enormous age difference between the writing makes it impossible. Perhaps other factors need to be explored.”
   “I don’t know what you mean.”
   “Do you have any relatives that can back up or refute your father’s claim?”
   “No. My father was closemouthed about my mother’s side of the family. He said they didn’t approve of him, and after my mother died, they threatened to fight for sole custody of me. As a result we moved and he broke all ties with them. I don’t remember my other grandparents.”
   “So, you don’t have any letters or photographs that would identify you?”
   “I have journals.”
   “Journals?”
   “Yes. I’ve been writing journals since I was a child. Fancied myself a famous author someday. I didn’t attain that dream, but I never outgrew the habit of almost daily diary entries.”
   Bingo! Christie thought.“Do you have any of your earliest journals?” Even though it was a long shot, Christie had her fingers crossed that luck would be with them.
   “Oh, yes, all of them.”
   “I would like to see a couple of the first ones. Could you FedEx them—overnight delivery? The journals may supply the link we need.”
   “I’ll send them right away. I only contacted Mrs. Farley to appease my stepmother.”
   They said good-bye and Christie hung up the phone. She was optimistic that the journals might be an important piece in solving the puzzle. Her first impulse was to call Mrs. Farley and give her an update, but then thought better of it. Why raise her hopes prematurely? Instead, she called Cash. When he answered the phone, her excitement poured out.
   “Whoa, slow down. I can’t understand a thing you’re saying.”
   “You put me on the right track last night. I just got off the phone with Dani Shepherd. She keeps journals, Cash.”
   “And?”
   “She’s kept them since she was a child! And she still has them. She’s going to overnight a couple, and I should have them by tomorrow noon. Do you realize what this means?”
   “You may be able to make a definite determination on the handwriting. I’m happy for you, Christie.”
   “I hope this woman turns out to be Mrs. Farley’s daughter.”
   “Don’t set yourself up for disappointment. The examination of the journals may prove that she isn’t.”
   Christie fell onto the couch, deflated.“I wish you hadn’t reminded me. I was flying high and you just brought me down to earth.”
   “No matter what the results, you will have done the right thing by Mrs. Farley. As much as you want to see her reunited with her daughter, you don’t want to see her duped.”
   “You’re right.”
   “On another note, last night was great.”
   “It was, wasn’t it?”
   “We’re a good match.”
   “You think so?” She took a deep breath.
   “I can’t get you out of my mind.”
   “Do you want to?”
   “No, not at all. I can’t think of anyone I’d rather think about, or be with.”
   “It’s pretty early in the morning to be flirting with me.”
   “How about continuing this playful conversation later in the day? My three o’clock appointment canceled. If you can ditch work early, we can go out for a sail. We can pick up dinner and eat on the boat. Temp should be moderate, and we can catch the sunset before we return to the dock.”
   “I would love an afternoon on the bay. I’ll take the cable car and you can pick me up at work.”
   “At your service, my love. How about three thirty? I’ll pick you up outside your building.”
   “I’ll be ready.” Hismy love was duly noted. Even though it was just an expression, a tease, it felt like a good fit.
   The morning passed quickly. She ate a sandwich at her desk and finished up some paperwork. At three o’clock, she put away her files and yanked her jacket off the coat tree. She fiddled with the pens and scratch pads on the desk—busywork. She had half an hour before Cash would arrive. After a quick good-bye to Tom and the receptionist, she took the elevator to the lobby. Her running shoes padded softly on the polished marble floor as she headed for the large glass double doors leading to the street.
   She checked her watch. Five minutes more to wait. She could count on his promptness. She pushed the door open and was caught up in the sounds of San Francisco, the constantly moving panorama of city life. She watched a large Muni bus trundle along the street, left behind by cars and taxis that whizzed by, horns blaring. In the daytime San Francisco was in perpetual motion and she loved it.
   Cash’s SUV pulled to the curb and she quickened her steps. The door swung open and she hefted herself into the passenger’s seat. “Right on time.” An inane remark, she knew, but it was a greeting of sorts.
   Cash leaned across the seat and kissed her cheek. She knew he was glad to see her, and that made her heart sing. She turned to face him, to take in his broad smile, the glint in his eyes, and she shivered with delight. An afternoon escape with Cash. What better way to spend the day?
   It was too early for the commuter traffic on the Golden Gate Bridge, and they made it to Sausalito with ease. Cash had called ahead and ordered a takeout meal, and they stopped to pick it up. He was out of the shop in minutes, swinging a blue-and-white insulated bag.
   Behind the wheel of the SUV once more, he swiveled to drop the bag into the backseat.“Roast chicken, potato salad, and apple pie. Sound good to you?” he asked.
   “Sounds like heaven.” Heaven was being with Cash, whether dinner was included or not, she mused. Alone on his boat without distractions…umm.
   They pulled into the harborside parking lot and scrambled along the dock toSerenade’s mooring. On board the boat, it took a minimum of time to unlash and raise the sails, and then they were motoring away. A light breeze, relatively warm, pushed at the sails, and Cash shut down the engine. The sails billowed like a half-filled balloon and the boat skimmed the water.
   She stood beside Cash as he handled the wheel, guiding the ship into the lightly rolling waves. He put an arm around her and drew her close so that their bodies were comfortably aligned. He kissed the top of her head and pushed away a stray tendril of hair that had been swept by the wind. As she leaned into him, her heartbeat began to race. She turned her face up to see him smiling at her. The smile turned serious and his lips slowly descended to meet hers. She drank in the taste of him, and felt a prickling sensation run up and down her arms.
   The boat rocked gently as it swept through the water. Christie rested her head against Cash’s chest, happy and content.
   “Look,” he said, indicating a midpoint in the distance. A pod of dolphins, five or six of them, danced in graceful ballet-like arcs along the surface of the water. Their gray bodies shimmered like silver in the reflection of the afternoon sunlight.
   They continued sailing along the coastline, following the route of pelicans searching for supper, and sea lions barking hoarse sea lion language from rocky outcroppings. Cash steeredSerenade into a cove, where the water was calm, and dropped anchor.
   They busied themselves setting their sumptuous dinner on a portable deck table. Cash poured two glasses of chardonnay and handed one to Christie.“To us,” he said, and then clinked his glass against hers. She sipped the wine while the wordus ran through her mind. It sounded right, she thought, and hoped it would last.
   She didn’t have long to wait for the promised sunset. The golden orb was fast dipping toward the ocean. Wanting to reach Sausalito before dusk, they hauled anchor and headed into the wind. Before they reached the harbor, the sun seemed to splash into the ocean. Orange rays fanned across sky and water, painting the Golden Gate Bridge awash in brilliance. Christie’s breath caught at the startling beauty.
   “Better than sitting in an office all afternoon,” Cash remarked, dropping the sails and motoring to the dock.
   “An understatement,” she answered.
   “You’re not an understatement,” he said. He reached for her hand and pulled her close. “You’re all I want.”
   He kissed her again, and in the fading light, the warmth of his body chased away the wisps of chill air that trailed the loss of sunlight.
   The following day, at five minutes before noon, a FedEx deliveryman was at Christie’s desk. She signed for the bulky package and could hardly contain the impulse to rip the sturdy envelope apart. Taking a deep breath to compose herself, she pulled at the adhesive strip. Dani had sent four journals. Three were mottled black-and-white composition books, the type familiar to students. The fourth must have been a gift, judging by the tapestry cover and fine-quality paper.
   Christie handled the books as though they were museum pieces. They might offer the key to a history that was of the utmost importance to three people, information that could change their lives forever. While the books she held were not heavy, the responsibility to her client was.
   She sat down and reverently placed the books on the desk blotter. She held her breath and opened the first book. The date at the top of the page indicated it had been written when Dani was about thirteen years old.The others must be earlier, she thought. She thumbed through the journal with the tapestry cover. It covered the second half of Dani’s eighth year in school. Her heart dropped; each book held the story of junior high school life. Childhood, yes, but not early enough to compare writing.
   The first book told the story of an adolescent girl on the brink of becoming a young lady, with all the accompanying anxieties that a mother might quell. Christie could almost hear young Dani’s voice as she longed for her mother, a safe haven in her distress. Although the handwriting would not shed light on the question of Dani’s identity, Christie planned to scrutinize the books. Perhaps luck would be on her side and she would discover an answer to the mystery, something that would prove who Dani was…or was not.
   At one o’clock Tom peered into Christie’s office. “I’m ordering sandwiches, anything you’d like?”
   “Turkey on sourdough would be great,” she answered without looking up.
   “I see you’re absorbed, so I won’t interrupt.”
   Christie nodded. Shewas absorbed.
   A couple of hours after lunch, she put down the last book. Her hands rested lightly on the cover, her eyes were misty, and she looked out the window, barely seeing the San Francisco skyline. She could only see a child in pain.Had Dani’s mother died? Or had her father perpetrated a cruel and despicable hoax?
   It was six o’clock by the time she left her office. At home she cradled a hot cup of mint tea in her hands. She could not shake the Farley case from her mind. Putting her tea on the end table, she reached for the phone; she wanted to talk to George Porter’s widow.
   Jane Porter answered on the fourth ring and did not seem in the least surprised to hear from her.“I thought you might call. Dani told me that she sent her journals to you yesterday.”
   “I’ve read the journals, but I thought I should speak to you.”
   “I’m afraid I can’t be of much help. I didn’t enter George and Dani’s lives until Dani was in college. George told me his first wife was killed in a car accident when Dani was six years old.”
   “Mr. Porter never said anything to lead you to suspect that things were not as they seemed?”
   “Not until he became ill, nearing death. I guess the morphine loosened him up. He began to speak of his first wife in the present tense. He said she had a great deal of money and could assist his grandchildren with college expenses when the time came. Just before he died, he grabbed my wrist and made me promise to find Dani’s mother. He was very weak, and I could barely understand his words. He was highly medicated and I thought he was hallucinating.
   “A few months later, I was going through his papers and found a thirty-year-old, yellowed clipping about a child’s abduction. When I saw an article in the paper about Mrs. Farley and it mentioned her daughter’s abduction, I began to wonder. I know it’s a long shot, but what if Daniis Gladys Farley’s missing child?”
   “You did the right thing by telling Dani what you suspected,” Christie assured her.
   “I struggled with that decision. If it is true, Dani’s memory of her father will be ruined. George was a good man. If he was Gladys Farley’s ex-husband, he must have been a very angry man at the time of their divorce. If he later had second thoughts about what he’d done, he would have facedprison if he turned himself in. I don’t think he could have endured being separated from his child.”
   “For thirty years Mrs. Farley has been separated fromher child,” Christie said.
   “Yes,” Jane Porter said softly. “If Dani is Gladys Farley’s daughter, my husband caused irreparable harm.”
   When Christie put the phone on its cradle, her hand rested there a moment. The conversation had been unsettling. Jane Porter’s suspicions were speculation, nothing more. You could begin to build a case on speculation, but eventually proof would be needed to reach a verdict. A verdict of gigantic proportions. A verdict that was in her hands.
   She thought about Drew’s remark: every time Gladys Farley’s name appeared in the paper, a dozen “Danielles” crawled out of the woodwork. Maybe this time was different, though; perhaps Dani was the missing piece in a lifelong puzzle. Christie had to find the answer.
   CHAPTER ELEVEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   It is next to impossible to compare printing with script. Christie sat on the couch, feet on the coffee table, contemplating the problem.
   What would Danielle and Dani have had in common during the first couple of years of schooling? Mrs. Farley had saved her daughter’s kindergarten and first-grade artwork, but what else? What item from the past could provide or dispute a connection?
   Didn’t primary-grade teachers have their students make Mother’s and Father’s Day cards? Dani’s father had been a single parent; perhaps he had treasured the childhood masterpieces.
   It was worth a call to find out. She reached for the phone and dialed Dani’s number. Christie apologized for calling so late, but Dani brushed the words aside and said that she was a night owl.
   “Dani, the journals don’t go back far enough to help with a determination on your identity.”
   “My identity. Somehow that sounds like a line out of an old movie script. I always knew who I was…until now. When my stepmother showed me the clipping, I brushed it off. My father often clipped articles from newspapers and magazines. That didn’t make him a kidnapper. Nothing indicates that I’m Gladys Farley’s daughter. I contacted her because Jane hounded me about it.”
   “It’s only fair to Mrs. Farley, and yourself, to investigate the possibility. When you were in first or second grade, did you make cards for your father? You know, Father’s Day, Christmas, Valentine’s Day?”
   “That’s an odd question, but yes, I did. I wasn’t much of an artist, but I could rhyme, so I wrote silly poems.”
   “Did your father keep any of them?”
   “Jane would know. She had a box of odds and ends that she said we should go through after a while. We weren’t up to it when Dad died. She may have gone through it herself by now, and I imagine that whatever she didn’t want, she threw out.”
   Christie’s heart dropped.
   “I could call her and see,” she offered.
   “Would you call her now?”
   “It’s late, she’s probably in bed.”
   “It’s important. Very important.”
   “All right.”
   Christie asked Dani to call back after she talked to Jane. Ten minutes later, the phone rang. Christie felt as though she hadn’t taken a breath while she waited for the call.
   “Jane went through the box a few weeks ago,” Dani said. “My father kept every one of my drawings, every card. Nothing was thrown out. Does that sound like a callous person, a criminal?”
   “Of course not.” Christie kept the excitement out of her voice. This could be it! The missing link, offering proof one way or another. “Dani, please call Jane back and ask her to mail the cards to me first thing tomorrow, overnight mail. I’ll reimburse her for the charges.”
   “Why don’t I pick up the cards in the morning and drive down to San Francisco with them? I could be in the city late afternoon. The sooner the mystery is solved, the sooner I can get on with my life.”
   Sleep was hard to come by; the weight of the Farley case bogged Christie down. When she woke in the morning, she felt as though she hadn’t slept in a week. A cup of strongly brewed tea was her only defense. Maybe she’d give herself a break and go into the office late. The only crucial case right now was the Farleys’, and Dani wouldn’t arrive until the afternoon.
   She placed her teacup on an end table and settled onto the couch. She picked up one of the journals, disappointed that it hadn’t pointed her in a direction toward or away from Dani. Her thoughts were interrupted by Tosha complaining from the kitchen. Groggy from lack of sleep, she had forgotten to give the cat breakfast. She padded into the kitchen and opened a can of turkey giblets and gravy and ladled out a generous portion, then returned to the living room.
   She opened the journal and reread the first few pages. Tosha soon edged her way onto Christie’s lap and promptly fell asleep. Christie rested her hand on the cat’s back and every so often stroked the soft fur. In response Tosha lifted her head and gazed at Christie, purred for a few seconds, and then resumed napping. Christie rested her head on the back of the couch, and let her thoughts drift.
   The phone rang, startling her out of her reverie. It was Cash.
   “Christie, I called your office and the secretary said you would be in late. Is something wrong?”
   “I didn’t sleep well. My mind ran a marathon all night.”
   “About the Farleys?”
   “Yes.”
   “Would have been better if you had been thinking about me. That would have put you to sleep,” he teased.
   “Thinking about you would definitely have given me sweet dreams,” she replied.
   “That’s what I like to hear. Have you unearthed anything new on the case?”
   “Dani is driving down with some cards she made for her dad when she was a second-grader. The cards should hold the answer, whatever it is. And I have to admit that makes me nervous. I’m afraid Mrs. Farley will be devastated if this is another dead end.”
   “Why don’t I take you out to dinner tonight, cheer you up?”
   “I’m not sure I’d be good company. So many thoughts are whirling through my mind. Anticipation and anxiety have me tied into knots. I’m not up for a night on the town.”
   “You have to eat. I’ll pick up some deli food and bring it to your place. Seven sound okay?”
   She did want to see him, longed to see him, in fact.“Seven works. And thanks, Cash.”
   “Hey, I’m trying to be your knight in shining armor.” He chuckled, and she could visualize laugh lines around his eyes. “See you later.”
   Christie walked into the bedroom and opened the closet. She shuffled through the hangers, looking for an outfit to wear. She chose a pair of gray slacks and a blue knit pullover, then she showered and dressed. A short time later she was in her office. There was a message from Dani saying that she expected to be in San Francisco by three o’clock.
   Christie tapped her pencil on the desk blotter. It was impossible to concentrate. She felt as though she was on a caffeine high. She peeked into the other office and told Tom that she was going to Starbucks for a decaf latte and a bagel.
   Sitting at a small sidewalk table, she watched pedestrians hurrying to lunch or appointments. A woman wearing a neatly tailored suit and carrying a leather briefcase rushed past, her focus obviously unbroken, as she headed to her destination. She poked the button at the pedestrian crosswalk and waited for the walk icon to flash on. Christie could almost sense her impatience. She felt the same way; three o’clock couldn’t come soon enough. Concentrating on other cases was difficult when Dani was foremost in her mind. Would the woman bring her a major clue to her identity, or just a bunch of innocuous childhood scribbles?
   She felt an urge to talk to Cash again. Maybe his voice would ease her jangled nerves. Her fingers poked the familiar numbers on the keypad, and she listened to the phone ring. Disappointment was sharp when she heard Paige’s voice. Cash was out of the office taking a deposition. She decided not to leave a message; what could she say, that she needed some verbal hand-holding? She knew that he would reassure her if he could.
   Her mind latched onto the realization that Cash’s entry into her life had changed her outlook. She was ready to share her insecurities and risk allowing him to enter her inner sanctum. This indicated a huge step forward. Her heart was now open to the possibility of love—his love. To be honest with herself, she admitted that she had already crossed over; her feelings for him were deep. That placed her in a vulnerable position, but she was ready to embrace that stage in their relationship.
   She tossed her empty coffee cup and napkin into a trash can and then strolled down the sidewalk. She peered into shop windows, hoping to edge out thoughts of the Farley case. The stores were high-end, and although she admired the leather purses and shoes in one store window, she realized that she could not afford even a key case in the designer collection.Why would anyone pay so much? she wondered. She suspected that a trendy hobo-style purse in the center of the display cost almost as much as a down payment on a car. She shook her head and walked on.
   In a pocket park, a bunch of pigeons scrabbled for handouts. She wished that she had kept a few crumbs from her bagel to feed them. It always amazed her that in the middle of high-rises, pigeons or starlings found their way to even the smallest plot of grass. An elderly man on a concrete bench dug into his pocket and then sprinkled sunflower seeds on the ground. The pigeons pushed and shoved their way to the banquet. One bird fanned its wings and screeched at the greedy crowd that had elbowed him out of line for the snack bar.Just like some humans, Christie thought.
   She looked at her watch. Dani would arrive in a little more than an hour. She returned to her office and transcribed notes from a case she was working on for an auction house. The minute hand on the wall clock clicked forward as her fingers flew across the computer keyboard. When she finished she hit the Print button.
   She thought about the consequences involved in the Farley case, both human and financial. There might not be any winners in the resolution, and that clawed at her gut. If Dani was Danielle, Mrs. Farley would be ecstatic, but Dani’s memories of her father would be compromised.
   Time seemed to slow to a crawl. Christie filled a small watering can and walked to the window. On the sill a trio of orchid plants was in bloom; their dainty scarlet blossoms climbed long, spiky stems. She generously watered each plant, then went to the small palm that was on the stool beside the bookcase and doused it with water. Then she remembered that the plants had been watered yesterday; she had probably drowned them.
   At a quarter to three Dani walked into the office. Christie stood and stepped around the desk, hand extended. Dani gripped her hand firmly.“You made good time,” Christie said.
   “There wasn’t much traffic.” Dani pulled a chair close to the desk and sat. Christie stared at the manila envelope on Dani’s lap.Let’s get on with it, she thought. A great deal depended on the contents of that envelope. Finally, Dani put the packet on the desk.
   Christie opened the envelope and gave it a shake. Half a dozen cards scattered across the desk blotter. Made of brightly colored construction paper, they were decorated with childish drawings scribbled in crayon, embellished with lace doilies, yarn, and glitter. The assortment fanned out like a kaleidoscope.
   Heart pounding, Christie picked up a Father’s Day card. The sun and a rainbow had been crayoned across the front. She opened the card and read the greeting, “Dear Daddy, Happy Father’s Day. Love, Dani.” The words were in unsteady printing, with a backwarde. Another card had a picture of a Christmas tree decorated in red and green glitter.
   Christie laid out each card, open to the inside writing, then reached into the second drawer in her desk and removed the thirty-year-old schoolwork that Gladys Farley had given her. She placed them above the greeting cards and positioned her magnifying apparatus over them. The backwarde’s, the slant of the crossedt’s, the shape of theb’s, the unsteady archedm’s andn’s, the fancy curve of thef’s andk’s, and thei’s dotted with checks that looked like tiny hearts, so familiar to her now, were nearly identical on the greeting cards. After all the hours she had spent scrupulously studying each letter, and unsuccessfully looking for a clue in Dani’s present-day writing, the answer was revealed in a bunch of crudely constructed cards.
   It was so quiet in the room she could hear Dani’s breathing. Outside a car alarm went off, breaking the silence.
   “They don’t match, do they?” Dani said.
   “We have a Hallmark moment,” Christie said, softly. “They match.”
   “They match,” Dani repeated in a whisper. Two simple words that would forever change lives.
   A few hours later Christie was home, eagerly awaiting Cash. She was still riding high on the euphoria of not only solving the Farley case, but having provided a storybook ending. It wasn’t every day lost loved ones were reunited. Mrs. Farley had invited Christie to have dinner with her, Drew, and Dani at the Palace Hotel. She had demurred, telling Mrs. Farley she’d take a rain check; the reunion should be private.
   The doorbell rang and she hurried to answer it. Cash loomed large in the doorway and without hesitation Christie stepped into his arms and pressed her face against his chest.
   “What’s that all about! If I’d known that a sack of takeout would guarantee a reception like this, I’d be over with a brown bag every night.” He put his arms around her and held her tightly.
   He touched her cheek with his fingertips.“Are those tears?” She nodded. “What’s wrong?” Cash held her at arm’s length, his brows furrowed in concern.
   “Actually, everything’s wonderful,” she said. “I just need you to hold me a little longer.”
   He pulled her close again, and for a few minutes neither spoke. There was comfort in his embrace. Familiarity, too, and strength. He smoothed her hair back from her forehead and gently kissed her beneath each eye. Her eyelids fluttered like butterfly wings as his mouth blotted each tear dry. His touch was warm and soothing, melting her bones.
   He spoke softly.“Tell me what happened?”
   They sat on the couch and Cash held her hands while she spoke.
   “Dani is Gladys Farley’s daughter. The handmade cards proved it. There were other signs, possibilities, but the cards—they said it all.”
   “I’m glad for you, Christie. I know you would have been disappointed if it had turned out any other way.”
   “Devastated is more like it. I let myself get too involved in the personal side of this case, and it drained me.”
   “You have a soft heart and I love that about you.”
   She felt heat creep through her veins. No matter how he used the wordlove, it infused her with warmth.
   “Maybe you need some R& R, a weekend away. I have just the prescription. I’ll take you to the jazz and bluegrass festival in Lake Tahoe. We can fly into Reno, rent a car, and stay at the Hyatt in Incline Village. I went last year and they had some great bands. We could stop and see your folks, too. What about it?”
   “Sounds great! I don’t know much about bluegrass, but I enjoy jazz.”
   “Tell you what, I’ll buy you a straw hat and I guarantee you will fit in with the country crowd. They have some hot banjo players, and the place will jump. Now let’s eat this food before it gets cold.”
   “You’re always so practical.”
   Practicality was obviously the last thing from his mind when he said good night. He held her so close she could almost feel the breath being squeezed out of her lungs. She was aware of his fingers at the back of her neck, inching upward into her hair. Drawing her face closer to his, he hesitated a second and their gazes locked. Their lips were nearly touching and she could taste his breath. When their mouths joined, her lips parted ever so slightly and she drank in his kiss. Her eyelids flickered shut and blocked outside thoughts. At that moment, only Cash filled her mind and heart. And it was a glorious sensation.
   CHAPTER TWELVE
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Christie looked up from the report she was detailing for the Farleys. Tom leaned against the office door frame, coffee mug in hand.
   “Great job, Christie. If you ever contemplate a career switch, I could use another investigator on my staff.”
   Christie laughed.“I don’t envy you your job, Tom. I had a lucky break. I’ll stick to document examinations.”
   “Mrs. Farley called before you came in. I think you can expect a generous bonus.”
   “She doesn’t have to—”
   Tom raised his hand with his palm toward Christie.“She wants to. You brought her more happiness than you can imagine. And peace. There’s probably a little something in it for me, too, for referring her to you, so we’ll both benefit.”
   “Winners all around. No complaints there.”
   The phone rang, and Tom gave a brief salute, then returned to his office.
   It was Cash.“I got tickets for the Lake Tahoe jazz festival. Put on your straw hat, we’re heading for the mountains.”
   Christie laughed.“You sound like a hayseed.”
   “Watch your mouth, lady. Bluegrass is serious music. I’ll convert you yet. Shall we talk about it over dinner tonight?”
   “Only if I can cook for you. It’s my turn—more than my turn, actually.”
   “I’ve never said no to a home-cooked meal. What time?”
   “Sevenish?”
   “I’ll see you then.”
   Christie left the office early enough to make a quick run to the market to pick up the ingredients for clam linguine and a salad. She browsed the fresh loaves of bread and selected a sourdough baguette. Almond praline ice cream was the last item to go into the basket. She had a container of frozen strawberries in the refrigerator to top the dessert.
   Cash arrived at her apartment at six forty-five. When she remarked that he was early, he grinned sheepishly and told her that he figured the time was as close to“sevenish” as patience would allow.
   “I was eager to see you. After all, it has been almost twenty-four hours since we’ve been together. I can’t believe I said that. I sound like a kid with a schoolboy crush.”
   “What’s wrong with that?” she asked, stretching on her tiptoes to give him a quick kiss. He grabbed her around the waist.
   “You don’t get away that easy,” he said. “I may act like a schoolboy around you, but I’m not settling for a child’s kiss.”
   He wrapped his arms around her and kissed her hard. Her response was anything but a schoolgirl’s. His kiss sent shivers along her spine and melted her heart. She wanted to cling to him endlessly, but a buzzer sounded, and they broke apart.
   “What is that?” Cash asked.
   “The kitchen timer. The clam sauce is ready.”
   Cash tossed the salad while Christie spooned the clam sauce over the pasta. The timer buzzed again.
   “Now what?” Cash asked.
   “Garlic bread. Without the timer I invariably scorch it.” She reached for a pot holder, withdrew the cookie sheet, and shoved the oven door shut with her hip. She slipped the garlic bread into a wicker basket and covered it with a cloth napkin.
   “This looks delicious,” Cash remarked as he carried the bowl of linguine to the table. “Where are the candles? You can’t have an Italian dinner without candles.”
   “In the sideboard.”
   He opened a drawer, took out a pair of candles and glass candleholders, and placed them on the table.“Matches?”
   “Same drawer, they probably got pushed to the back.”
   In a few minutes, they were sitting across from each other. The candles’ soft glow sent light and shadow dancing across the table. Cash uncorked a bottle of chardonnay and poured a glass for each of them.
   “To us,” he toasted.
   “Yes, to us,” Christie replied, warmed by the thought.
   A few days before the Tahoe jazz festival, Christie called her parents to make sure they would be in town. Her mother expressed disappointment that she and Cash would not be staying at their home in Reno. Christie explained that the concerts ended late, and it was a long drive over Mount Rose Highway to Reno, and not one they would want to chance late at night, especially with the threat of black ice. Her mother conceded to her daughter’s safety, but insisted on cooking dinner for them on Sunday. Christie would have suggested eating out, but she knew her mother delighted in fussing over her.
   She looked forward to seeing her parents, but was a little nervous about having them meet Cash. She hoped they didn’t assume this was a serious relationship and grill him. Since she herself wasn’t sure where their romance was headed, she didn’t want her parents to jinx it with intrusive and possibly embarrassing questions. She had told her mother that Cash was “just a friend,” but it was obvious that her mother did not believe her for a minute.
   Friday came quickly. Cash had been explicit about packing light. Christie brought a carry-on suitcase and a small duffel for odds and ends. Jeans and a couple of long-sleeved shirts should take her through the weekend. A jacket, too, because even in late May it could snow in Tahoe. For good measure, she tossed a quilted vest into the duffel.
   Cash picked her up at her apartment and they headed to the airport. He spoke enthusiastically about the jazz festival and kept her mind off the prospect of flying.
   Cruising over the Sierras, Christie was tempted to close her eyes and blot out the view of the ridges and treetops. The mountain peaks appeared to be a wingtip away. She tried to remember that Cash was an excellent pilot, but acknowledging that fact did nothing to quell the butterflies in her stomach. When the Beechcraft Baron touched down at Reno Airport, she breathed a sigh of relief.
   In a short time they were driving over Mount Rose Highway in a rented SUV. Cash’s snow warning did not materialize, but the weather could change before the weekend was over. At the Hyatt in Incline Village, the parking attendant took the keys to their vehicle and handed Cash a receipt. Inside the hotel the lobby was framed in rough-hewn beams and heavy rock facing. Thick, wrought-iron chandeliers were suspended from the high ceiling. The decor resembled a Swiss chalet.
   A massive, double-sided rock fireplace partially separated the reception area from a large gambling casino. Christie could hear excited voices from the craps tables. White-shirted dealers stood attentively at a number of poker tables while players checked their hands. Red lights whirled on top of slot machines; bells clanged and coins shot into metal trays.
   Waitresses in short black skirts plied customers with free drinks in the hope of keeping them gambling. The casino had the look of a mini Las Vegas. The difference was that when you walked out the door, you were met by a magnificent environment. Nothing like this natural beauty of lake and forest existed on the Vegas Strip.
   They rode the elevator to the fifth floor, where Cash and Christie had adjoining rooms. Her suite was furnished with a pair of overstuffed love seats positioned to take advantage of a view of the lake peeking through tall ponderosa pines.
   They had dinner reservations for seven o’clock at the Lone Eagle Grill. Christie unpacked quickly and freshened up. She shrugged into her jacket and wrapped a knitted scarf around her neck. It had been a long time since lunch and she was famished.
   They walked across the road to the restaurant. Christie was impressed with the architecture here, too. In the same style of decor as the hotel, the ceilings rose three stories high, and tall logs emphasized the alpine appearance. Cash told her that it was rumored that the architects had modeled the restaurant after the famous Ahwahnee Hotel in Yosemite National Park.
   The hostess led them to a table near a window. The view of the lake was exquisite. Outdoor lights illuminated the shore, and moonlight flashed and danced across the rippling water.
   The meal was excellent. Christie tried to resist dessert, but Cash convinced her to share a chocolate-raspberry mousse.“You have to end dinner with something sweet,” he’d said, and she couldn’t refuse. Afterward they sat in the cocktail lounge by the rugged stone fireplace and sipped after-dinner espressos. Christie could hear a trio singing a country-western song. She couldn’t quite remember the name, but it was a tale of love. She sneaked a look at Cash to see if the words had any effect on him. He smiled and reached for her hand. His touch was gentle, and the light squeeze he gave evoked a feeling of closeness.
   The song stopped before the last verse was complete.“I don’t believe it!” A voice interrupted the mood. “Cash McCullough. What have you been up to?”
   A tall man, clutching a guitar, walked into the circle of firelight. Cash stood up and enthusiastically shook the man’s hand and clapped him on the back. “Sean Cassidy, it’s good to see you. Are you and your boys playing the festival, or are you just bumming around?”
   “Bummin’ around? You’ve hurt my feelings.”
   Cash turned to Christie.“Sean and I go way back,” he said. “This is my friend Christie Hamilton.”
   Sean leaned over and shook hands with Christie. His grip was firm, his hand callused.
   “Glad to meet you, Christie. Cash introduced you as a friend. Hmm, if he doesn’t have more in mind, I’d say he was crazy.”
   “You’re putting me on the spot, Sean,” Cash said. “And Christie, too. You don’t want to scare her away, do you?”
   “Heavens, no. That would be a terrible thing to do. Hey, Cash, why don’t you join us for a set?” Sean shoved the guitar at him.
   “It’s been a long time,” Cash said.
   “Come on, it’s like riding a bike. A couple of chords and you’ll be ready to go.” Sean turned to the other musicians. “Boys, meet Cash McCullough. Jason and Thomas.” Sean pointed as he said their names, and each man responded with a nod.
   “If I remember correctly, ‘Sugarfoot Rag’ was one of your favorites.”
   “You’ve got me, I can’t turn that song down.”
   “Jason, you strike the chord,” Sean said.
   Cash tapped his foot to the beat of the music, and when the fiddler slid the bow over the violin, Cash and the banjo player strummed hot and fast. At nearby tables customers began clapping in rhythm to the music.
   The next song was slower and Sean sang a solo on the first verse, then Cash and the other two men came in on the chorus. Christie could see that Cash was enjoying himself.
   “Okay, boys, no more easy stuff. Let’s see where Cash stands on ‘Dueling Banjos!’” Sean said.
   “I don’t know, Sean, it’s been a long time since I had that kind of a challenge. I’m afraid my fingers are rusty.”
   “No excuses. One, two, three.”
   The banjo player hit the first chord, Cash answered with a chord of his own. The tempo increased until it rose to a frenzied crescendo. The room, which had previously buzzed with conversation, become quiet except for the sound of the two musicians. Perspiration beaded on Cash’s forehead. Christie watched his fingers fly across the guitar, saw that the banjo player was just as intense. When they completed the song, the room burst into applause. Cash wiped the perspiration from his face with his arm.
   “That was a workout,” he said. “I forgot how much fun that could be.”
   “Don’t you play anymore?”
   “Never any time. I have my guitar stashed in a closet, but I never get a chance to pull it out.”
   “That’s a shame,” Sean said. “You still have the touch.”
   “Not enough to pay the rent.”
   “Always realistic.” Sean turned to Christie. “I think this guy was born sensible. Maybe you can use your charms to get him to lighten up.”
   Christie smiled, not knowing how to answer.
   “Well, I’ll say good night, and give you two a little privacy. We have the lounge gig all week. Maybe we’ll be discovered. Enjoy the festival, but come and see us before you leave. Maybe we can jam a bit more.”
   Cash returned the guitar and the two men shook hands again. Then the trio moved on to serenade another table.
   “You are turning into a mystery man,” Christie said.
   “What do you mean?”
   “You played that guitar like a pro. I never realized you had so much talent.”
   “I picked up the guitar in high school. Then in college Sean and a few other friends and I formed a band. We entertained at cocktail lounges and bars, occasional frat parties, even bar mitzvahs. Helped pay for beer and pretzels.”
   “You’re modest. You sounded really good.”
   “You’re embarrassing me. Why don’t we go for a walk? We might as well take advantage of the weather.”
   The moon was nearly full and cast silver streaks across the inky water. Waves lapped at the sandy shore and a stiff breeze ruffled tree branches and whistled through the pines.
   Snow-capped mountains were in silhouette on the far shore. The night was magical, Christie thought. Walking side by side with Cash, her body brushing against his, she felt teased by his closeness. She expected any minute he would take her into his arms and kiss her. Instead, he held her hand, and they walked on. She lifted her collar to ward off the chill.
   “Are you cold?” he asked.
   “It’s the breeze.”
   “Do you want to return to the hotel?”
   “No, I’m enjoying the walk. It’s a beautiful night.”
   “That’s not all that’s beautiful.” He placed his hands on her shoulders. Then he slid his hands up the sides of her neck and cupped her face between his palms. The warmth of his touch set her skin on fire. She looked into his eyes and recognized desire, the same desire that turned her bonesto mush.
   He was slow to bring his face to hers—agonizingly, deliciously slow. She studied his face, watched his eyes close, waited for the touch of his lips. His kiss was deep, and his mouth tasted as rich as the wine he had consumed earlier. Their bodies meshed, and she no longer felt chilled. She drew her hand around his head and wove her fingers through his thick mass of hair. The kiss deepened, and Christie became light-headed from the sensations that flashed through her body like a hundred-amp electrical shock.
   She wished the embrace could last forever. It felt so good, so right, so now.But what about later? she wondered.What about the future? These were unanswered questions. She was not sure if she was ready to risk her heart. Play it safe, common sense told her. But standing in the moonlight with Cash’s arms around her, it was impossible to heed common sense.
   Almost as though he could read her mind, he drew away. He held the lapels on her coat for a minute, then suggested they return to the hotel.
   In between concerts the following day, they rented bikes and rode the paved trail along Lakeshore. Box lunches and a bottle of wine were in Cash’s bike’s front basket. Christie marveled at the mansions along the lake. They stopped at an Italian-style villa with a diminutive “for sale” sign.
   “There’s a lot of money on Lakeshore,” Cash remarked. “Some of it’s old, some of it’s new Silicon Valley money.”
   “This is magnificent,” she said. “It looks like something out ofArchitectural Digest.”
   The mansion was surrounded by a formal garden. A waterfall poured into an architecturally designed river-rock stream; flowering ornamental trees were in bloom and azalea created a profusion of natural bouquets. Color was everywhere, and the soft hue of the mansion complemented the riot of reds and pinks.
   They rode their bikes to Burnt Cedar Beach and gave their guest passes to the woman in the kiosk. They pedaled away and then stopped and leaned the bikes against a pine tree and walked to a nearby picnic bench. A pair of shorebirds hopped onto the table and peered expectantly as they opened their luncheon container. Convinced of a handout, the birds inched closer, heads bobbing as they pecked at the table, foraging for stray crumbs. Christie didn’t disappoint them: she broke a piece of bread from her sandwich and tossed it their way.
   “We’ll never get rid of those pesky birds if you feed them,” Cash said.
   “I know, but they look so needy.”
   He shook his head.“You’re a bleeding-heart kind of gal, and that’s sweet. But no more feeding the birds.”
   On the lake a Windsurfer’s sail billowed as it smoothly glided above the water. A motorboat towed an inner tube with a pair of children, legs dangling over the side, screaming as they picked up speed. In spite of the activity, the lake appeared serene.
   “We’d better hustle,” Cash said after they finished lunch. “You might want to take a short nap before we go out tonight.” They rode their bikes back to the hotel, passing other cyclists, joggers, and walkers. Nodding hello to the people they passed, Christie thought it was a perfect day to enjoy the brisk mountain air.
   Cash had tickets for an evening concert at the Biltmore, an older casino in nearby Crystal Bay. They had an early dinner at the hotel, then took a shuttle bus to the Biltmore. It was a sold-out performance, every seat occupied and people standing along the walls. The lights dimmed and the band trotted onto the stage. Applause filled the room. The bandleader struck a chord and the concert began. Sweet trumpet music and the sorrowful notes of a saxophone were bound together by the piano player knocking out the melody. Christie thought of New Orleans: this sounded like the jazz she had heard on Basin Street. It all came from the same heart, she reasoned.
   Afterward, they went to the cocktail lounge at the Lone Eagle. Christie was surprised to see two of the musicians from the morning concert playing with Cash’s friends.
   “They can’t get enough of the music,” Cash said. “These guys can play until dawn. As long as they have a breath left and an audience in front of them, they’re good to go.”
   They sat at a small table near the fireplace and ordered wine. Cash moved his chair closer to Christie’s.
   “Are you enjoying yourself?” he asked.
   “Very much. The music is wonderful.”
   “You’re wonderful.”
   “That’s a lovely thing to say.”
   “You’re a lovely woman.”
   “Wow! The music is really getting to you, isn’t it?”
   “Not any more thanyou are getting to me. I mean it, Christie.”
   His words burned brighter than the candle on the table. She didn’t know what to say to him. The weekend together had cinched it: she was in love. No backing away from it, no maybes, she would give him her heart if he asked. And the way he looked at her right now, the words he had said, hinted that he might be ready to give her his.
   The following afternoon they drove back to Reno. Christie’s parents lived in a gated community. An attractive stretch of green lawn dotted with sycamore and pine and views of a nine-hole golf course created an attractive entry. The streets curved around the residences, which ranged from single-story ranch to large two-story brick colonials and Tudors. The Hamiltons’ home was near the pool, an amenity that Christie’s mother enjoyed. Cash parked, and as they climbed out of the car, the front door to the house swung open. Christie’s mother stood on the threshold and waved them in with an enthusiastic welcome. She enveloped her daughter in an affectionate hug.
   “Darling, I couldn’t wait to see you. Daddy’s on the patio firing up the barbecue. He insisted that nothing but his special chicken would do for his little girl.”
   Christie winced at the“little girl” description, but she knew that she would always be her parents’ little girl. She turned and introduced Cash. He extended his hand, but Christie’s mother was too quick, and she threw her arms around him. Christie smiled at her mother’s exuberance, confident that Jackie Hamilton heard wedding bells the minute Cash walked through the door.
   “Just call me Jackie,” she said as she led them to the kitchen. “Can I fix a drink for either of you?”
   “I’ll pass,” Cash said.
   “Mom always has iced tea in the fridge.”
   “Teetotaler, huh,” Jackie teased, pulling a large pitcher from the refrigerator.
   “I can’t have alcohol, because I’ll be flying in a few hours,” he said.
   Drinks in hand, they proceeded to the patio.“Mike,” Jackie called, “Christie and her friend are here.”
   Mike Hamilton shook Cash’s hand. “Glad to meet you, sir,” Cash said.
   “None of this sir business, you’ll make me feel old. And I don’t feel that way.”
   “Of course not, Daddy. Mom tells me that you volunteered for the Reno Symphony docent program again. I’ll have to spend a weekend this summer and attend one of the concerts.”
   “Yes, and bring your friend. You like classical music, don’t you, Cash?”
   Cash put his drink down before replying. Christie saw that he was a bit uncomfortable about answering her father.
   “Cash is a fan of jazz and bluegrass,” she said.
   “Bluegrass, huh? I don’t know about that, but I enjoy classic jazz—Erroll Garner, Dave Brubeck, Miles Davis.”
   “You know your bands. Miles Davis is one of my favorites,” Cash said.
   “Looks like we’ve got something in common. And before the summer is over, maybe we’ll convert you to a symphony enthusiast, too.”
   The afternoon went by quickly and then it was time to leave for the airport. Jackie hugged Christie and whispered,“He’s a keeper, hon, a real keeper.”
   Christie pulled away slightly and said,“I know where this is going, Mom. You have that grandmother look in your eyes.”
   “Yes, and it’s about time.”
   Cash and Mike were discussing whom they considered the greatest trumpeter. Reaching the door, Mike gave Cash a friendly pat on the back, and told him he would make reservations for a July musical.
   “The production ofWicked is scheduled, a must-see. It’s already sold out, but I may be able to wrangle a few tickets. Will you come?”
   “You can count on it,” Cash said. “Thank you for your hospitality, Jackie, Mike. This has been a very pleasant afternoon.”
   “I was so glad Christie was bringing you here. Mike and I looked forward to meeting you,” Jackie gushed.
   On the road Christie said,“My mother comes on a little strong sometimes.”
   “Your parents are great. I meant it when I said it was a pleasant afternoon. I enjoy being with family.”
   “Anybody’s?”
   “You know what I mean. Special families.”
   Christie leaned back, taking in the meaning of what Cash had said,“special families.” She hoped that he would always consider her part of that category.
   The flight to San Francisco was routine. Afterward, Cash drove Christie home.
   “Thanks for a wonderful weekend,” she said.
   Cash touched her chin, tipping it up. His mouth brushed hers and she wanted to grab him and bring his mouth to hers in a deep kiss. His nearness unsettled her, setting her nerves on fire. All weekend they had been close, touching, holding, kissing; emotions had run rampant within her. Now, in the quiet moments of returning home, there was a sudden letdown. Three days together, and now they would be apart. She closed her fingers around the collar of his shirt and pulled his face back to meet hers.Forward? she thought. Maybe, but she wanted, needed his kiss.
   “What do you have in mind?” Cash murmured a moment before her mouth captured his. Searing sparks prickled up her spine, and her mind was clouded with sensations, not answers. The kiss, the tight alignment of their bodies as they embraced, the heat of the moment, filled her, overpowered her. Shewanted more, but it would have to be enough. For now.
   The week dragged by. Christie’s cases were uncomplicated and did not fully absorb her: an obviously forged check, a holographic will that stood up to review, and a manuscript that was purported to be written by an obscure author. She anticipated the weekend at Big Sur with Cash. Sunny weather was promised through Sunday, if you could trust the weatherman.
   Signing off on the last document, Christie went to lunch. She was back at her desk after a quick sandwich at the deli. As she was hanging her sweater over the back of her chair, the phone rang. She reached for it and said hello. It was Cash.
   “Disappointing news,” he said. “I can’t make Big Sur this weekend. I have a new case and it’s going to take all my time this afternoon and most of tomorrow. I’m sorry, Christie.”
   “I am, too.” She had been looking forward to spending Saturday in Big Sur. They had planned on leaving early in the morning, attending her art instructor’s exhibit, walking the beach, and having an early dinner high up on the hill at the Ventana Inn before returning home late that evening. Her spirits, so high just a few minutes ago, dropped to the floor.
   She leaned back and swiveled in her chair, thinking about the lost opportunity. Then her chair sprang upright and she bounced out of it. It was still early; if she made a quick detour home for a change of clothes, she could be on the road to Big Sur before three. She’d spend the night.
   She thumbed through the Rolodex until she found the Big Sur Inn. Dialing, she kept her fingers crossed that there would be a vacancy. As much as she wished Cash was going, his presence was not a prerequisite to enjoying the weekend.
   The desk clerk was polite and helpful, taking her reservation and mentioning that today’s weather was quite nice.
   Before she left she ducked into Tom’s office to tell him that she was leaving early. After a quick stop home for a change of clothes and to feed Tosha, she was threading her way through light traffic and heading south. She would arrive at Big Sur with a tad of daylight left.
   After registering at the inn, she tied a sweatshirt around her waist and set out on a hike through the park. She walked alongside the river, which narrowed to a creek at this juncture. She watched a young couple with backpacks cross weathered wooden planks that bridged the creek. The water sparkled and the clarity revealed a bed of round river rock and minnow-size fish swiftly swimming back and forth.
   Spring in the forest was special. Wild azalea and rhododendron peeked through masses of ceanothus—California’s wild lilac. Hunks of Scotch broom, ablaze with clusters of buttercup-yellow blossoms, swayed gently in the breeze. Yellow clusters dripped from acacia trees, sure to inflame her allergies, she mused. The trail was thick with manzanita, sycamore, and towering sequoias. This scenic spot was another world, hidden from the inn and campsites that were just a stone’s throw away.
   The hike brought her to a gorge, and she had to watch for poison oak. Newts and salamanders zipped across the path, and squirrels chattered at her. It was tough going once she entered the gorge. The trail was not as defined and huckleberry vines sprang at her, their nasty thorns threatening to gouge her skin. Although the weather was warm, she pulled her sweatshirt on to protect her arms.
   Then she reached the prize. A monolithic granite spire rose from the ground and a ribbon of waterfall cascaded over it, creating a pool at its base. Across the water, ripples shimmered in circles and grew as they fanned out.
   She took off her shoes and socks and sat on an outcropping. She dipped her feet into the pool; after the long hike, the chilly water was refreshing. If only she’d worn a bathing suit under her clothes, she thought. The water was inviting; perhaps another time she would go for a swim.
   The tensions of the week fell away in response to the beauty of the woodland setting. A red-tailed hawk soared overhead, making the scene more perfect than if she had designed it herself. Tranquility. Every nerve in her body relaxed.How fortunate, she thought,to have this natural gem nearby.
   Later, after a brisk shower, she had dinner at the inn’s restaurant, and then browsed the gift shop. She chose a couple of postcards and a T-shirt, then returned to her cottage.
   Back in her room, she undressed and pulled an oversized sleeping shirt over her head. She hauled Kristin Hannah’s latest novel from her overnight bag and made herself comfortable in a chair by the window. At ten o’clock, her eyes weary from reading, she closed the book. It had been a pleasant, even inspirational, day. The one ingredient that would have improved on the mix was Cash.
   She had expected a candlelight dinner for two, mood music, and a walk through Ventana’s garden, not dinner alone. She could almost feel his arms crushing her close, his heartbeat throbbing with desire, his lips hotly pressing hers. She had visualized a steamy love scene, but she knew it was only a fantasy. She settled for going to bed early, wearing her sensible cotton nightshirt.
   The following morning, Christie enjoyed an unrushed breakfast of Belgian waffles and strawberries. The sun was brilliant and the air already showed signs of warmth. Spring was unpredictable on the coast; one minute it was summer weather, the next it felt like winter. After finishing a second cup of decaf tea, she checked out of the inn and drove to the art gallery. Judging by the scarcity of cars in the parking lot, she was either early for the exhibit or there was a lack of interest. She surmised that others would drift in and out throughout the weekend.
   The gallery walls were covered with paintings of various scenes and contrasting styles, but she spotted Scott’s work immediately. His bold strokes stood out. Two men were standing together, and as she approached, one turned, and she was pleased that it was her instructor.
   “Christie, so glad you came. I’d like you to meet the gallery owner, Mr. Allingham.”
   They shook hands, and as Allingham departed, Scott put a hand to the small of Christie’s back to guide her through the exhibit.
   “I’m extremely pleased at how many paintings Allingham hung. I didn’t expect so much exposure.” He waved his arm.
   Christie walked alongside Scott, slowly taking in his artwork. When one particularly caught her attention, she would stop, and Scott would explain some detail about that particular piece. She especially liked his Big Sur paintings. They were realistic, but he had painted each scene with his own interpretation. Strong, bold strokes and vibrant colors accented the natural beauty of the cliffs and surf.
   They were interrupted by the gallery owner, who had a couple in tow. He introduced them to Scott, and Christie excused herself so he could focus his attention on the prospective buyers. She paused at a large canvas on an easel. It didn’t look like one of Scott’s; the colors were soft and moody, capturing the fog-shrouded bluffs with a sense of emotion. She leaned forward and checked the signature. The hair on her arms rose. The artist was Elliot Parker! She swiveled and scanned the wall. Four more of Elliot’s paintings hung in the gallery. Heart pounding, Christie hurried over to the gallery owner. She could hardly believe what she had seen. Allingham was bent over a podium, straightening out the guest book and pen: busywork. She tapped his arm and he looked up.
   “The paintings by Elliot Parker, are they recent acquisitions?”
   “Yes. Mr. Parker comes through here regularly, and his work is well received, especially by tourists. I am always grateful when he brings in new work. Are you interested in a particular painting?”
   “Do you know where he is staying?”
   Allingham looked at her quizzically.“We can’t give out that kind of information. I’m sure you understand. Privacy reasons.”
   “This is very important. I’m a friend of Mr. Parker’s daughter. She is expecting a baby and there have been complications with the pregnancy. Elliot has been on the road so long, he is unaware of the situation. We’ve been trying to contact him.”
   “You could leave a message.”
   “There isn’t time.”
   “I’m sorry, we are strict on confidentiality.” Allingham turned, dismissing her. Christie pulled a card from her wallet, scratched a message on it, and handed it to him.
   “Please give this to Elliot when you see him. Impress upon him that this is an emergency.”
   On the way out of the gallery, she said a hasty good-bye to Scott. She knew what she had to do: check every campground in the area. First she’d call Cash.
   He answered the phone on the third ring. Christie told him that she believed Elliot was in the area, and her plan.
   “If you locate Elliot, tell him to drive to Watsonville Airport and then call me. I’ll fly him to Sedona.”
   “What if he refuses?”
   “Once he knows Margo needs him, he’ll be ready to return home. And Christie, why don’t you come, too? We can be back tomorrow.”
   The one question Christie did not voice was: What if she couldn’t find Elliot? If she failed, she would feel as though she had let Margo down. Being this close, it would be unthinkable not to succeed. Margo needed her father. Being estranged from him after losing her mother must make her feel like an orphan.
   The reservation office at Little River Campground was her first stop. The receptionist was friendly. She thumbed through the campsite roster, but Elliot was not registered. She gave Christie a list of campgrounds and some phone numbers and told her that she was welcome to use the office phone. Christie was appreciative; her cell phone was getting spotty reception.
   The third campground host she spoke to gave her a lead.“Mr. Parker often stays here,” he said, “but when he showed up a little more than a week ago, we were completely full. I suggested he try Fernwood or Little Sur Campground.”
   She got an answering machine at Little Sur. Thanking the receptionist for use of the phone, she jingled her keys as she strode to the car. She only had to drive a few miles, but it seemed like an eternity until she saw the rough-hewn signboard over the campground entrance.
   A cardboard clock at the reservation desk indicated that someone would be back at one o’clock. It was one fifteen now; so much for punctuality!
   Unable to contain herself, she returned to her car and slowly drove through the campground, hoping for some indication that Elliot was there. She followed a looping dirt road bordered by campsites. Recreation vehicles of every size, from a small tent-trailer to a streamlined luxury motor home, were scattered beneath the trees. Campers relaxed in canvas and metal chairs or at wooden picnic tables. Remnants of the previous evening’s campfire smoldered in some fire pits and smoke curled into the air. She watched a young boy tease the flames with a long stick. His mother pulled his hand away and warned that if he got too close he would get burned.
   The road curved into a cul-de-sac; campsites lined only one side of this section. Just around the bend Christie came upon a secluded site. Set back from the road was a twenty-four-foot motor home and a single canvas-and-metal chair. A folded artist’s easel rested against the motor home. Christie’s hopes soared. She parked and got out, her heart thrumming. Big Sur was popular with artists;this could be anyone’s easel, she reminded herself. She quickly shook that idea out of her mind. She had too much invested to allow negative thoughts to intrude. Margoneeded this to be Elliot!
   She stepped up to the RV and knocked on the door. No answer. Just her luck. If this was Elliot’s spot, he could be out hiking or beachcombing, and might not be back until dark. Or maybe he had a tow vehicle and had driven to Monterey or Carmel.
   “Are you looking for someone?” a soft voice asked.
   Christie whirled and stared into the face of Elliot Parker.
   Elliot locked the motor home and they headed to Watsonville in Christie’s car. Cash had given easy directions to the airport, which was about twenty-five miles north of Monterey. She had told Elliot about Margo’s problem with her pregnancy and the restrictions the doctor imposed.
   “It’s important that she be kept stress-free,” she said. “And worrying about whether or not she would ever see you again hasn’t helped.”
   Elliot turned his face toward the window. Christie realized that her remark was sharp, but it was true, and he deserved it. How could he have deserted his daughter, argument or no argument?
   “I was having a difficult time,” Elliot said by way of explanation. “I’m grateful that you found me. I would never purposely hurt Margo. I love her,” he said simply.
   They arrived at Watsonville Airport and parked. They were on the tarmac in time to watch Cash’s plane touch down and roll off the runway toward them. Elliot took Christie’s arm and they ran out to meet the Beechcraft. Cash pushed the cabin door open, dropped the step, and Christie and Elliot climbed aboard. “Elliot, it’s good to see you,” Cash said.
   “I didn’t know about Margo’s baby,” Elliot sputtered. “I would have returned home…” There was regret in his voice.
   “I know, Elliot. That’s all over now. I’m going to get the plane back in the air.”
   They buckled themselves into their seats while Cash taxied onto the runway. He accelerated, bringing the nose of the plane skyward, and as always Christie felt her stomach drop.
   “Not scared, are you?” Elliot asked.
   She tried to appear nonchalant and shrugged her shoulders.
   They were quiet during the rest of the trip, and as they made their approach to the airport in Sedona, Christie closed her eyes and silently vowed not to open them until the plane rolled to a stop.
   Once on the ground, Cash secured the wheels to the chocks. Hal was waiting for them. He appeared hesitant as the threesome approached, then he finally stepped forward and grasped Elliot’s outstretched hand. “Glad you’re here, sir,” he said.
   “How’s my daughter?”
   “Better now that you’re here. Cash’s call was a gift.” He turned to Cash and clapped him on the back. “Thanks, buddy. You, too, Christie.”
   Later that night, at Cash’s hacienda, he and Christie sat on the patio going over the day’s events. Cash’s housekeeper had been unprepared for the impromptu arrival of her boss and guest and had family plans.
   “Finish your wine and we’ll go into town for dinner,” Cash said.
   “I’m not dressed for anything fancy.” Christie looked at her khakis, perfect for hiking, but definitely not in tune with upscale nightlife.
   “I know a restaurant that serves great seafood, southwestern style. Casual attire is the norm.”
   “All right, but I don’t want to be rushed. Let me enjoy the wine. I feel as though I’ve been on fast-forward all day and now I need to rewind.”
   Cash smiled and reached over and touched her arm.“Take your time.”
   Forty minutes later they were sitting in a quaint Mexican restaurant ordering seared ahi with ceviche. The hostess had given Cash a hearty greeting, and the chef came out to say hello, telling them that the ahi, flown in that morning, was special tonight.“Best you’ll ever have,” he insisted, and he was right.
   “You’ve done well for yourself, Christie,” Cash said. “Two reunions in a short period of time. And not easy cases.”
   She glowed with his compliment. She did feel good about herself. It had been an extraordinary couple of weeks. She’d set a record that undoubtedly would never be repeated. And that was a good thing, because the two cases had worn her out. Besides the long hours, her emotions had been overtaxed.
   Cash reached across the table and wrapped his hands around hers. He seemed to study her face before he spoke.“I’m glad you came into my life. I confess I had taken a narrow path, my work was everything, the only thing. And then I met you and…well, things changed.”
   She didn’t know what to say. They had been separated for only a few days, but the intensity of her feelings for Cash had escalated with each passing day. But she was afraid to let him know. In the back of her mind, there was the fear that this was a fairy tale and it would soon end, but not in a storybook, happily-ever-after way. She’d been burned once.
   “Christie?” He tipped his head questioningly.
   “This is a special time for me, too,” she said.
   The waitress unobtrusively placed their bill on the table. Cash took some twenties from his wallet and placed them on the little tin plate, and they left.
   On the ride to the hacienda, Christie was deep in thought. She was confused. She wanted to be open about her feelings for Cash, but she still had reservations.
   “You’re quiet,” Cash said.
   “A lot has happened this week. I hope the excitement of seeing Elliot wasn’t too much for Margo.”
   Cash pulled the car into the driveway and parked. A few minutes later, alone with Cash inside the house, Christie felt a restless tension. It was too early to excuse herself and go to her room and read, but for some reason she wanted to put distance between them. She had so much to consider about their relationship.
   “It’s still warm, would you like to go for a swim?” Cash asked.
   “I don’t know—”
   “You’re a Pisces; you should have a natural affinity for water. Don’t you have a bathing suit in your duffel? I can’t imagine going to Big Sur without a swimsuit.”
   “Yes, I do,” she answered.
   “I’ll give you ten minutes to change, then I’ll meet you on the patio. It would be a shame to miss a good swim on a warm night. I’ve been confined so much today, I could use a little exercise.”
   She didn’t argue. A swim might wear off the tension, help her sleep better.
   As soon as she stepped onto the patio, she knew that she had made a mistake. Cash openly appraised her, and when his gaze rested on her face, it was penetrating. She felt overwhelmingly vulnerable. He moved toward her, and she stepped back awkwardly, then felt foolish. She wasn’t afraid of him; she was afraid of herself. Her knees seemed to buckle, and she sat in a chair to gather herself.
   “Anything wrong?” he asked.
   “No, just getting up the courage to go in the water. It must be cold.”
   “On the contrary, the hot desert air keeps the pool quite warm.”
   The moon was rising to its zenith and the patio was touched by its light. A ripple of breeze skittered across Christie’s skin, and she trembled. Cash took her hand and slowly pulled her up. They stood close and she could feel his breath on her face. They walked to the pool’s edge. Cash did a shallow dive, skimming the surface of the water. She opted for the steps, moving slowly, putting off the inevitable. Finally, she was in. She started to swim across the pool. She was aware of Cash at her side, their bodies nearly touching. When they reached the far end, they turned and swam back.
   It felt good to have the water pulse around her body. The tension of the day began to slip away. She closed her eyes and floated lazily, opened them again and swept her arms into a graceful breaststroke. Cash lunged into a ruthless butterfly, churning the water into whirlpools. Christie could not fight the tidal wave. She grabbed the side of the pool and hoisted herself out of the water. Cash’s strokes were powerful, and he covered the distance like an Olympic champion. After a few laps, he joined her on the side of the pool, their wet bodies dovetailing. Again she was assaulted by a tremor. “You’re cold,” he said. “Let me warm you.”
   She expected him to wrap a towel around her, but instead he enveloped her in his arms and pulled her close. His face burrowed into her hair and she could feel his moist breath in her ear. He pulled her closer and she could feel the heat of his body dry every bead of moisture on her skin. She could hardly breathe. She knew that it would be prudent to draw away, but she lost the will to resist.
   His hand did a slow climb along her spine and then his fingers fanned through her hair. His touch seemed to set her nerve endings on fire. His mouth pressed against hers and she felt as though the world was spinning.
   “I want to hold you in my arms forever,” he whispered across her mouth.
   “Yes, forever.” Had she uttered the words for him to hear, she wondered, or were they spoken only in her heart?
   CHAPTER THIRTEEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Margo had insisted they come to the house for an early brunch. Hal was wearing a Winnie the Pooh apron when he answered the door.
   “What’s the getup for?” Cash pointed at Pooh’s chubby tummy.
   “A shower gift. Margo said I should get used to wearing it, that taking care of a baby isn’t just gal stuff. Hey, I don’t mind, as long as no one takes my picture and sends it to theTimes.”
   “Maybe we can buy you a Tigger apron when we get back to the city,” Christie said. “It would be a bit more masculine than Pooh.”
   “You’re not going to get on my case, too, are you?”
   “Heavens, no, I think your apron is the height of fashion.”
   “All right, enough of this. Come on in. Elliot and Margo are on the patio. I could say that I’ve been slaving over a hot stove, but I’m afraid that the sacks from therosticceria give me away.”
   “Good try, old buddy.” Cash slapped Hal on the back, and they followed him out to the garden.
   Margo stood to greet them, giving each a hug. She held Christie a moment longer, seemingly not wanting to break the tie.
   “This is the first morning in a year that I haven’t started the day with a prayer for my father’s return. I can’t thank you enough, Christie.” Her voice was unsteady and her mouth quivered.
   Elliot bowed his head slightly, momentarily avoiding eye contact. He obviously recognized the turmoil he had brought down on this family. There was no doubt that he regretted his actions. Then he looked up, smiled, and reached out to clasp Christie’s hand.
   “I thought I said it all yesterday—thanks and gratitude, and all that. But I’m still overwhelmed that you would go the extra mile to find me. To bring me back to my daughter.” His eyes were damp. He released Christie’s hand and brushed at his face with his knuckles. “I’d like to give you something to show my appreciation.”
   “Oh, Elliot, that isn’t necessary, I’m happy I could help.”
   He waved away her protest.“Margo told me that you enjoyed painting at Big Sur, and when I spoke to Cash on the phone I asked him about it. He said you had an instant affinity for the place. I feel the same way. That’s why I spend so much time camping and painting in those forests and along the coastline. The changing moods of the mist-shrouded beaches and cliffs fascinate me. I’d like you to have one of my paintings. A token, a remembrance of the happiness you brought our family.”
   “Elliot, I don’t know what to say. Thank you.”
   “You’ll have to pick it up at the gallery. I called and told Allingham to give you the pick of the litter, so to speak. That means another trip. Maybe you can talk this guy into going with you.” He jabbed a fist toward Cash. “Make a day of it. Or a weekend.” Elliot winked.
   “You old codger, are you trying to play Cupid?”
   “I’m hoping you can figure that out for yourself, son.”
   Margo seemed to glow in the presence of her family and friends and the happy banter that passed between them. Hal appeared relaxed for the first time since Christie met him. There had been so much concern for Margo’s and the baby’s well-being, and now they seemed like an ordinary expectant couple, counting the days or weeks until their child was born. Elliot’s return had turned anxiety into joyful anticipation.
   Hal filled their glasses with orange juice. He raised his glass and spoke softly.“To the baby. And to the five of us.” They clinked their glasses.
   “Hal and I want the two of you to be our baby’s godparents.” A tear trickled down Margo’s cheek. “It would make us very happy.”
   “I’d be delighted; I’ve never been a godmother,” Christie said. “But it’s such a big responsibility, and you hardly know me. Are you sure? I don’t want you to make a decision borne of the moment and then regret it.”
   “We know you well enough to realize that our son or daughter could not have a better role model.”
   Hal turned to Cash.“What do you say, buddy?”
   Cash gave Hal a gentle punch in the arm.“It’s a done deal. I’m honored.”
   When they returned to Cash’s hacienda, he told Christie he had a surprise outing for her, and suggested she change into a bathing suit. When she asked where they were going, he told her to be patient, and she would soon find out.
   The mystery trip was a drive through Oak Creek Canyon. Cash told her that it was nicknamed the Little Grand Canyon. After they drove along saguaro cactus–dotted terrain, the new vista was magnificent. The road was framed by lush greenery and yellow bowers, backlit by red-rock enclaves.
   They came around a bend, and Cash said,“Here we are: Slide Rock.”
   He pulled the car onto a parking area next to three other vehicles.“You should see this place in the summer. There wouldn’t be an inch to maneuver the SUV into. Most popular spot around.”
   Crystal-clear water tumbled over a tall, sloping rock formation. Years of water movement had smoothed the stone into a sleek, natural waterslide.
   “Well?” he said. “Are you game?”
   “You bet!” Christie jumped out of the car, leaned against the door, and began yanking at her shorts and pullover. She kept her shoes on, sensing that the climb could be slippery.
   Cash pulled his shirt off and walked to her side of the car. He took her hand and they began the hike to the top of the slide.
   “Scared?” he asked.
   “Not at all,” she said as apprehension assailed her. She could get hurt, she thought. It was a steep, rocky climb to the top. A few times, loose rock scattered beneath her steps, making her arms flail out to regain balance. She didn’t fall, but she stumbled, and lost confidence in the trek. When she reached the pinnacle, her feet did not want to move onto the wet rock plateau. Cash squeezed her hand, but that did not reassure her. Screams pierced the air. Christie whirled and almost lost her footing. Two girls were speeding down the incline, arms in the air, screaming for all they were worth. She watched them reach the bottom. The girls stumbled to their feet. They looked up at Christie and Cash.
   “Come on,” one of them shouted. “It’s a blast!”
   A blast? It looked dangerous, and they called that fun? Christie thought as she picked her way closer to the slide.
   “We’ll go down together,” Cash said. He sat on the rock and beckoned to her. She gingerly hunkered down in front of him. His legs braced hers, and his arms went around her waist. Her feet seemed to be rooted in a crevice, holding firm.
   “Ready?”
   “I guess…” she answered.
   He pushed off and they plummeted down the steep incline. It was a roller coaster ride without the car, she thought, trying unsuccessfully to repress the scream that burst from her throat.
   At the bottom they splashed into a natural pool. Christie had to admit, the ride had been exhilarating. And as far as she could tell, she had no broken bones or bruises. Cash stood and leaned to put his hands under her arms to help her up.
   “Think I’m a baby, do you?” She shrugged free of his grip, independence flaring. “Let’s do it again.”
   He threw his head back and laughed.
   Later they spread a blanket under a leafy bower of sycamore and unwrapped their picnic lunch. The air had warmed considerably and she was glad for the damp bathing suit—the coolness was welcome against her skin.
   Cash reached over and tucked a stray lock of hair behind her ear and removed her sunglasses. His touch lingered. Her breath caught in her throat. A raven soaring overhead cast a shadow over them, then passed. She inhaled the fragrance of unidentified blossoms. She was caught in a time warp, too wary to move forward, unable to retreat.
   He hooked his hand around her neck and drew her face to his. She watched, like a deer caught in headlights, as his mouth dipped to touch hers. Her eyelids fluttered, then closed, as she drank in the sensation. The kiss began soft and undemanding, like two people comfortable with each other might share.
   “Christie.” He spoke her name against her mouth. The kiss deepened, and his arm encircled her waist, drawing her body against his. Prickles of desire brushed her skin raw.
   “Hey, man, go for it!”
   Startled, Christie pulled back. A trio of teens was watching them from the top of the slide. One of the boys waved. Cash waved back; Christie turned away. She ran her fingers through her hair, self-conscious and embarrassed. And disappointed.
   “Hey, don’t take it seriously.” Cash touched her arm. “We were only kissing. I don’t think we shocked anybody.”
   She shook herself away from him.“We were acting like teenagers ourselves! What got into us, making a public display?”
   “Come on, don’t take yourself so seriously. We actually have a rather private spot here. Just our luck to have nosy kids barge in on us.” He shrugged. “You have to admit, it was good while it lasted.”
   She picked up her napkin and threw it at him.“You are a cad of the first degree.” Cash was right, it had been good. Perhaps that was too mild a word;great might be more accurate. The sensations his kiss evoked definitely were in the superlative category.
   When they returned to the hacienda, Maria and a handsome young man were in the front garden.
   “Marco!” Cash said. “How good to see you. Why aren’t you up at the university? They didn’t throw you out already, did they?”
   The two men laughed and shook hands.
   “Christie, this is Maria’s nephew, Marco. He’s in his second year at the University of Arizona.”
   “Thanks to Señor Cash,” Maria said.
   “I’d be sweeping floors at the market if it wasn’t for Cash,” Marco said.
   “You underestimate yourself. I’m sure that you would have won a scholarship once you put your mind to it.”
   “Nothing fuels determination like a helping hand,” Marco said. “I won’t let you down, Cash. My grade point average is still three-point-eight.”
   “Glad to hear that.”
   “Of course, to maintain grades, I’ve had to give up my social life completely.”
   “Let’s not pour it on too thick. Maria told me about the sweet gal you’re dating.”
   “No family secrets, are there, Auntie?”
   Maria looked like she was going to scold her nephew, but she realized he was teasing and her face broke into a smile. It was obvious that she doted on the young man.
   “We have a three-day weekend, and I promised Auntie a visit. She told me that you were in town. Couldn’t go back to school without saying hello.”
   “You did a good job with this boy,” Cash said.
   “Gracias, señor, and so did you. We have much to thank you for.” Maria turned toward Christie. “My sister and her husband were killed in an auto accident when Marco was twelve.” She made the sign of the cross before continuing. “Marco came to live with us. He was a sad boy. Who wouldn’t be, after losing their parents? My sister and her husband had great hopes for Marco; he was going to be our family’s first college student. But fate seemed to take that dream away.”
   “Until Cash brought it back,” Marco interjected.
   “Yes. When Marco was a junior in high school, Señor Cash told us that he had established an education fund for him.”
   “I wouldn’t be at the university if it hadn’t been for Cash.”
   “Whoa, you guys are making me out to be a saint!” Cash turned to Christie. “Marco did odd jobs for me over the years. I was impressed with his industriousness. He said he wanted to become a vet someday, and I gave him a boot up.”
   “That’s not the whole story,” Maria said. “Señor Cash was like a big brother. He gave Marco more than odd jobs; he gave him friendship. Marco looked up to him. When other boys his age were getting into trouble, my nephew studied so that he would not disappoint Señor Cash.”
   Cash put an arm around Marco.“I was smart to invest in this big guy. He’s going to become the best veterinarian in all of Arizona. At least he’s not going to become a lawyer. Goodness knows, we have enough of them.” The remark lightened the mood.
   “I left a basket of fruit and rolls to take on the flight back to San Francisco, Señor Cash.”
   “Thanks, Maria. You’d make a great flight attendant.”
   “We have to be on our way,” Marco said. “I have to pick up my roommate for the drive back to school. It was great seeing you, Cash. Nice meeting you, Christie.” He clasped Cash’s hand again, then he and his aunt left.
   “You are a many-faceted man,” Christie said.
   “Stick around and you’ll find out all kinds of things about me.”
   “I’d like that.”
   “Right now, we’d better get our gear and head out to the airport.”
   “It’s been a full day. And full of surprises,” Christie said.
   “Yes,” Cash agreed. “And you never know what’s next.”
   CHAPTER FOURTEEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   The flight back to San Francisco was smooth. The sky was cloudless as daylight eased into dusk. Golden streaks stretched across the horizon, leftovers from sunset. As the Beechcraft made its final approach, the plane’s nose dipped and began the descent. Christie did not have to be reminded to buckle her seat belt—it had been fastened since she boarded.
   So much had transpired in a relatively small stretch of time. Finding Elliot Parker, and confirming that Dani was indeed Danielle, had brought joy into each family’s lives, and had filled Christie with a deep satisfaction. How could she slip into the mundane after such significant accomplishments?
   And there was the matter of Cash. Her feelings for him had to be addressed sooner or later. She recognized the intensity of the attraction, of her connection to him. The question was, What was she going to do about it? She had to decide if she was ready to risk a more permanent relationship. Not just a romantic fling. He had hinted at commitment last night.Could we possibly have a future together? she wondered. It was hard to be optimistic where love was concerned. A broken heart in college had only resulted in messing up a couple of exams. The stakes were higher now.
   The propellers changed pitch, jogging Christie out of her reverie. She realized that her doubts about Cash might be part of the letdown that often comes after the euphoria of successfully concluding a case. Especially one of the Farleys’ magnitude.
   “You’re very quiet,” Cash said.
   “I don’t want to distract you during your instrument check,” she fudged. “I’m counting on reaching San Francisco in one piece.”
   Cash smiled, and shook his head. When the Beechcraft touched down and rushed across the runway, her eyes were on Cash, not the ground. He made the necessary adjustments and the Beechcraft slowed until it was smoothly rolling toward the corridor that led off the tarmac. Christie breathed a sigh of relief. Would this ever become routine to her?
   They deplaned at a private hangar and Cash fastened the wheels to the chocks. Christie hefted her lightweight duffel and headed to the SUV. On the way to her apartment, they discussed the weekend and the surprise at being invited to be godparents. At the door Cash lingered but did not ask to come in. It had been a long day for both of them, and Christie looked forward to pajamas and a hot chocolate before hitting the bed. Not a romantic thought, but realistic. She was beat.
   “I’ll pick you up in the morning and we can get your car.”
   Christie nodded, too tired to hold a conversation. Cash put his hand under her chin and he slowly leaned forward until his mouth claimed hers. No amount of fatigue could override the sparks his kiss ignited. She clung to him, her fingers twisting into his rough cotton collar.
   “Um,” he murmured before they broke the embrace. He chucked her under the chin, and once again told her he’d see her tomorrow.
   Christie had no recriminations about skipping work the following day. She had accomplished enough to fill a week, she mused. At nine a.m. Cash was at her door with a Starbucks cup in his hand.“For you,” he said.
   “You think of everything. Thanks. I don’t think I could face the day without a latte.” She grabbed a sweater and her purse, and they were out the door and on their way.
   The drive was pleasant. The stretch of freeway was flush with trees and rolling hills. In the distance she could see horses and other livestock grazing.
   As they neared Watsonville, Cash suggested that they first go to Big Sur and pick up the painting Elliot had promised her. They could retrieve her car on the way back.
   The gallery owner appeared pleased to see them. He told Christie to take her time choosing a painting, and tagged along, making comments on each of Elliot’s pictures. Elliot would be generous, not only with her, but with Allingham, she was sure. He would undoubtedly receive a commission just as though he had sold the painting. That was probably his motive in trying to influence her to choose one of the larger canvases.
   Cash was impressed by Elliot’s paintings, too. “All the years Elliot was CEO of his electronics company, he was organized and results-oriented. Hal said that he had a mathematical mind, a true engineer. These paintings show a side of Elliot that none of us knew existed. When I look at these scenes, I don’t see a man wholived a regimented life. I’ve known Elliot since I was a kid, and I never would have guessed that an artist was hiding in the shadows of his psyche. In spite of all the turmoil his leaving Arizona caused, perhaps in the end it was the best thing that could have happened.”
   “How can you say that?”
   “It freed Elliot, loosened him up for a whole new stage of life. One that he needs now that his beloved Emily is gone. You see, she was his alter ego, his bright, free spirit. As much as he loves Margo and Hal, a part of him was missing after Emily died. Perhaps in discovering art, he filled a bit of that empty space.”
   Christie touched his arm.“Your insight surprises me. You’re right, Elliot’s paintings reflect his soul. That’s what I’ll feel every time I look at this one.” She pointed to a misty, moody rendition of Big Sur’s cliffs and surf. A silvery splash of sunlight glittered off the waves as they brushed the sand. A circle of gulls, wings spread wide, soared on an updraft. Elliot’s palette knife had created deep-gray, three-dimensional rocky spires.
   “So, you’ve chosen your painting.”
   “Yes. This is the one that speaks to me.”
   The gallery owner wrapped the painting, and Cash carefully stashed it in the rear of the SUV.
   On the drive back he suggested a side trip to Pacific Grove for lunch.
   They picked a casual eatery and sat at a window table that overlooked the surf.
   “That beach”—Cash nodded his head toward a small cove—“is called Lovers Point.”
   “Lovers Point? Sounds like a story’s lurking.”
   “Rumor has it that a rejected lover, overcome with grief, walked into the surf and swam out toward the horizon. They never recovered his body.”
   “Like James Mason inA Star Is Born?”
   “Something like that. I doubt that many couples who stroll along Lovers Point today ever heard of James Mason, however. If they’ve heard of the movie at all, they would probably connect it with Streisand and Kristofferson.”
   A server interrupted the discussion by placing their orders on the table.
   “Crab salad looks great.” Christie reached for a roll, broke off a piece, and buttered it. “I didn’t realize how hungry I was.”
   She turned her attention back toward the beach. She surmised that this stretch could be treacherous, but right now it was benign and picturesque. The sea drew her. She could not imagine living far from the water’s edge. Her soul would ache for salt air and sea breezes.
   “I can almost see Elliot here, with his easel plunked down on the sand.”
   “For someone who lived in Arizona all of his life, he seems to have adapted well to the coast.”
   “It is more than adapting—he’s fallen in love with the sea. He’ll want to come back. Oh, not to live here permanently, but he will come back.” She leaned forward. “I can’t imagine being landlocked.”
   Cash reached across the table and his big hand enfolded her smaller one.“I’m glad we share the same attachment to the sea. It’s one more thing we have in common.”
   Christie smiled; words were unnecessary to convey her reaction to his remark. Did their love for the sea bind them to each other? She lowered her eyes, confused by her interpretation of his statement.Wishful thinking, she chided herself,nothing more than wishful thinking.
   After lunch they continued the drive to the airport. Cash parked adjacent to Christie’s car, and the two of them climbed out of the SUV. Christie leaned against her car door, and Cash positioned an arm on each side of her, fencing her in. He bent toward her and his face was so close she could feel his breath curling across her cheeks.
   “Shall we meet at your place?” he asked. His voice was low and throaty.
   “I’d like that,” she said.
   He kissed her lightly, and she took the gesture as a tease for something more to come. She would dwell on the thought all the way home.
   Before she pulled out of the parking lot, she slipped a CD into the stereo. She needed the peppy songs of the Dixie Chicks to keep her alert on the long drive. Traffic along Highway 1 was light until she reached Santa Cruz. Then she merged with the commuters anxious to get home. It was worse when she reached the city. Drivers’ patience was strained, car horns blared, and drivers sped through yellow traffic lights to beat the red. Twice she was cut off. At a red light, she took a moment to insert a mellow Harry Connick, Jr. CD to ease her jangled nerves. At times like this, she almost understood road rage. Didn’t approve, would never approve, but almost understood.
   She was tempted to swing by the office to see if there were any messages, but since Cash was going to meet her at her place, she would go straight on. She assumed he would make a quick detour to his office first, but she decided her business could wait until morning.
   Driving down her street, she could not believe her luck: a parking spot. After maneuvering into the space, she hurried to her apartment. Once inside she stood in the hallway and called Tosha. The cat usually greeted her at the door; the key turning in the lock was her signal. She called again, but Tosha did not respond.
   She quickly walked through the rooms looking for the cat. She found her in the bedroom lying between the pillows.“Tosha,” she called, surprised that the cat did not rise. “Tosha, baby,” she called again. The cat lifted its head and softly meowed. It was more a cry of distress than a hello. Christie picked the cat up and held her close. “What’s wrong?” she asked. “Whatever is wrong?”
   Tosha lay listless in her arms. Christie carried her into the kitchen to give her a treat. That would surely liven her up, she thought. She took a can of chicken and liver off a shelf and pulled the tab. She let Tosha smell the food, but the cat did not move a whisker. Something was terribly wrong. Christie looked at the dish of dry food and bowl of water. It appeared that neither had been touched all day.
   Still holding the cat, she punched the number eight and the telephone automatically began dialing the vet. Rachael, the technician, answered, and after Christie told her Tosha’s symptoms, Rachael suggested she bring the cat right in.
   “We’ll be here until six. If you hurry, we’ll have time to run some tests.”
   Christie hung up the phone. She put Tosha on the couch and went to get the cat carrier. Then she remembered that Cash was coming over. She dialed his cell phone and he answered on the second ring. She briefly told him the situation.
   When she arrived at the vet’s office, Cash was standing in the waiting room. He took the carrier and embraced her. Tears began to stream down her face. The anxiety she had fought to keep at bay, the fear that Tosha’s illness was serious, overwhelmed her. She couldn’t stand it if anything happened to her beloved cat.
   “I don’t know how…but I’m glad you came.”
   “I got the address from the phone book. You don’t think I’d let you go through this alone?”
   “Thanks,” was all she could muster.
   Rachael told Christie that Dr. Jacobs would see Tosha right away.
   Inside the examining room, Christie lifted Tosha out of the carrier and held her until the vet entered the room.
   “What seems to be the problem?” Dr. Jacobs asked.
   Christie told him what she had observed, and it was obvious from Tosha’s malaise that she was sick.
   After examining the cat, the vet said,“I’m going to draw blood and we’ll see what’s going on. Her temperature is somewhat elevated, and she’s probably dehydrated. She’ll need fluids. We can keep her overnight and give her an IV or we can inject water under her skin and you can take her home when we’re finished. Unless hertests show something critical.”
   Christie could not bear the thought of Tosha being in a cage overnight. And what if…? “I’d like to take her home. She’ll be more comfortable.”
   “I understand,” Dr. Jacobs said. “Why don’t you make yourself comfortable in the waiting room until we’re finished.”
   Christie nodded, unable to speak. She knew that if she said another word she would start blubbering. Out in the waiting room, Cash put an arm around her. She leaned against him, burrowing her face against his chest.“Thank you for coming,” she said.
   “I know how much Tosha means to you.”
   Christie dabbed at the tears that spilled from her eyes. She had lived alone for a long time, and Tosha had been her best friend. She had hugged her close when she was happy, and she had hugged her close when she was sad. What would she do without her?
   “She’s got to be all right,” she said.
   They sat and waited. Christie was thankful for the strength Cash’s presence imparted. When she had lived at home, her mother was her rock, but ever since she moved to San Francisco she had faced life’s foibles alone. It was a change to have someone to lean on.
   “It’s taking so long, that must mean bad news.”
   “The doctor said he was going to hydrate Tosha. That takes time.”
   “He should have let me go in the back with her. She isn’t accustomed to being with strangers. She’ll be scared.”
   “I know this is hard for you, but you have to trust the doctor.”
   “Oh, Cash, what if…” Her voice trailed off.
   He put his fingers to her lips.“No what ifs.”
   It was only twenty minutes until Dr. Jacobs returned to the waiting room with Tosha. Christie felt as if it had been a lifetime. She anxiously reached for the cat.
   “I hydrated Tosha, and I gave her a shot of antibiotics. Her blood and urine indicate an infection, but I’m sure we’ve caught it in time. Rachael will give you antibiotic tablets. I want Tosha to have one three times a day for three days, then twice a day until they are gone. If she doesn’tstart taking food or water after twenty-four hours, call me. If there is a change for the worse, which I don’t anticipate, call me. Our kitties usually respond well to this antibiotic.”
   “Thank you, Dr. Jacobs.” Christie snuggled her face into Tosha’s thick fur.
   “Come on, Christie,” Cash said softly, picking up the carrier and holding it so that she could lower the cat into it. “Everything is going to be all right. You heard what the doctor said.”
   She nodded, too emotionally drained to say or do anything else.
   “I’ll follow you home.”
   “Will you come in for a cup of coffee? Or tea?”
   “Sure.”
   She did not want to be alone. Part of her was reassured by the vet’s prognosis, but another part was fearful that she would lose her cat. Cash would be comforting, and that, she was convinced, was the prescriptionshe needed.
   It was still light out when she arrived at her apartment. She was thankful for daylight savings time. Driving San Francisco’s busy streets and jockeying for a parking space in the dark would have taken more skill than her jangled nerves could muster. A few minutes after she got Tosha settled on the bed, Cash was at the door. She was quick to let him in; his presence provided a semblance of calm.
   “How’s the patient?” he asked.
   “She’s sleeping. I’ve never seen her so lifeless; it’s pitiful.”
   “The vet said she’d sleep more than usual until the infection recedes.”
   “I know, and cats normally sleep most of the time anyway, but it is so unlike her not to respond to me. When I got home this afternoon and she didn’t meet me at the door, didn’t come when I called…it scared me.”
   “Of course, it’s only natural to be concerned.” She heard the sympathy in his voice.
   “I was more than concerned, I was near panic. And I felt guilty. I had enjoyed a weekend away, completely unaware that my cat was ill. I was too busy to notice the signs. She could have died.”
   “Don’t blame yourself. The cat would have been sick whether or not you were home. You acted as soon as you recognized there was a problem. Now where’s the coffee you promised me?”
   “I’ll make it, just let me check on Tosha first.”
   Cash shook his head and smiled at her, knowing that she had probably looked in on the cat only minutes before he arrived.
   The following day, Christie quit work early to go home and give Tosha her midday antibiotic. Fortunately, she could work at home almost as easily as at the office. A couple of short days wouldn’t make any difference.
   She had called Cash to thank him for his help last night. He had made light of it, but she had appreciated his strength and empathy. She would not have expected him to understand the depth of her attachment to Tosha, especially since he did not have a pet. She was grateful for his presence and could not imagine what it would have been like if she’d had to wait alone for the results of Tosha’s tests and treatment.
   There was so much about him that was not visible from the outside. His tough facade was necessary for a successful trial lawyer, but his underlying character was soft when it came to the people he cared about. And, she realized, he cared abouther. Last night proved that. Their relationship encompassed more than moonlight trysts—it had depth.
   She had thought she might never open her heart again. She had struggled with keeping it closed to invitations to love. Even with Cash, she had not dared to think of the future; only the here and now. But last night the shield she had erected, and so carefully tended, had shattered. There was no need to fight her heart. Her reactions to his kiss, his embrace, were thrilling, but she had questioned their future.Enjoy the moment, don’t get hurt had been her motto. She would not fool herself any longer. This was real, at least on her part, and she was willing to risk her heart. This time, she believed it was right.
   Christie tended to Tosha, then tried to catch up on a portfolio of work that she had brought home from the office. She sat at her desk and pulled a sheaf of papers from a folder. She tapped her pen on the desk; she could not focus on her work. Her thoughts were on Cash and scenes swirled through her mind: once again she was in his strong arms. Without conscious thought, she hugged herself tightly.
   “I’m in love,” she said out loud. Tosha’s ear twitched. “Yes, I’m in love.” She left her desk and walked to the couch. She picked Tosha up and placed the cat on her lap. As she stroked the cat’s soft fur, contentment wrapped Christie like a warm blanket.
   At six o’clock, a knock at the door startled her out of a comfortable nap. When she gently moved Tosha off her lap, the cat issued a protesting meow. Christie opened the door and was surprised to see Cash. He handed her a paper bag.
   “To the rescue,” Christie said, as she held the deli bag.
   Cash bowed his head in mock acceptance of her words.“I thought you might need some nourishment. I’m sure Tosha has been well cared for and that you might have forgotten about yourself. I picked up half a roast chicken and scalloped potatoes at the hot food counter at the market.”
   “You are a sweetheart,” she said.
   “Your sweetheart, I hope,” Cash said. He took her free hand in his for a moment and she felt intimacy in the simple gesture. She looked up at him, and their gazes locked. Familiar ripples passed through her body.
   “Let’s get the food on the table,” Cash said, breaking the mood.
   She put dishes and silverware on the table and they sat down. Cash glanced over at Tosha.
   “She looks comfortable.” He nodded toward the sleeping cat.
   “Yes, she’s doing what cats do best.”
   “She is rather cute,” he admitted. “We always had dogs at home, big ones, much too large to coexist with a cat.”
   “You’d be surprised. Friends of ours have a German shepherd and a Siamese cat that sleep together.”
   “You’re kidding.”
   “Why not? It’s no different than big dogs sleeping with little dogs. Cats and dogs in the same household usually tolerate each other, and if they grow up together they often like each other.”
   “If you say so.”
   “Oh, Cash, you don’t believe a word I’ve said.”
   He had a sheepish grin on his face, and did not reply.“On a more serious note, I’d like you to come on down to San Diego with me next week and meet my mother and sister. It’s my niece’s birthday and I promised I’d be there.”
   “Meet your family? That is a serious note.”
   “They won’t give you the third degree, if that’s what you’re afraid of. I’m the one they’ll grill. I can just hear my mother, now: ‘It’s about time you decided to settle down. I thought you’d never find the right girl.’”
   “Girl?”
   “You know how mothers are. I can just hear her: ‘My son and his girl.’”
   “And how will you answer her?” she asked.
   He kissed her gently, then drew away for a moment.“How do you think I’ll answer? If you don’t know, perhaps this will provide a hint.” His kiss was fiery and fingers of heat spread through her body. He communicated well, she thought as her heart filled with passion and love.
   CHAPTER FIFTEEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   In the morning Christie’s thoughts were focused on Cash. He was beginning to consume a lot of space in her life, making it difficult to concentrate on anything else. She wasn’t complaining—it was a delightful distraction.Double the pleasure, she thought: Cash in reality, and Cash on her mind. She had thought her life complete until he’d entered it and filled it with his presence.
   Meeting his family would be a big step. He had told Christie that it was only right that she meet his mother and sister, since her family had met him. It was endearing to know that there was a smidgen of old-fashioned charm in his character. It also indicated the seriousness of their relationship.
   She wondered what his mother and sister were like. The McCulloughs were a close-knit family like hers, and she admired that. Many people she had met over the years had the barest relationship with their families. It was hard for her to understand, because she treasured time with hers.
   Cash’s enduring friendship with Margo, Hal, and Elliot, and his dedication to helping his housekeeper’s nephew, also said a lot about his character. She thought about the caring way he had treated her when Tosha was sick. His tough-guy courtroom persona had fallen away and he had consoled her. He didn’t laugh at her for being wrapped up in her pet. He understood her anxiety, and tried to ease it by being there for her. Matt probably would have laughed and told her to lighten up. Looking back at the college romance, she now wondered what she had seen in Matt. Love might be blind, but she hadher eyes open this time, and she liked what she saw.
   The phone rang. She picked it up quickly, hoping it was Cash.
   Her wish was answered.“Hi,” he said. “How about lunch at the Cliff House? I can take about ninety minutes around noon, if that works for you.”
   “Definitely works for me. Shall we meet there?”
   “No sense in both of us getting frustrated over hunting for a parking space. I’ll pick you up.”
   “If you ring me just before you get to my building, I’ll wait downstairs. That way you won’t be stressed twice.”
   “Very practical. I’ll see you at noon.”
   “Don’t forget to make a reservation,” Christie said into a dead line. But then, Cash knew his way around. She doubted that he would depend on a walk-in at the Cliff House.
   After showering she dressed in a pair of tailored beige pants and a white silk blouse. She walked into the kitchen to give Tosha her morning treat. The cat had responded to the antibiotics and her appetite was in full swing again. She padded to her bowl, sat down, and waited expectantly. Christie pulled the tab off a can and scooped a portion of chicken and liver into the dish. Tosha was at it instantly.
   Christie took time for another cup of tea. Even though her cat was on the mend, she wasn’t ready to leave her alone for long periods of time.
   When she arrived at the office, she was surprised to see a vase of red roses on her desk.
   Sharon peered inside the door.“I could hardly wait for you to arrive, Christie. Who are the flowers from?”
   “We’ll know in a minute.” Christie lifted the tiny envelope from its perch and slipped the card out. “How sweet.”
   “Yes? Don’t keep me in suspense.”
   “It’s from Dani Shepherd. She says, ‘Thank you for giving me a new family.’”
   “That is sweet. You deserve it; you were a godsend to those people. I don’t think anyone else would have been able to reunite them.”
   “Thank you, Sharon.” Christie was slightly embarrassed by the effusive compliment, but appreciated the secretary’s goodwill.
   The day certainly was off to a good start, she reflected. Her cat was well, Cash had invited her to lunch, and her desk was adorned with beautiful roses. It couldn’t get much better than that, she thought.
   Ten minutes before noon, Cash called to let her know he was on his way. It was a short drive from his office to hers, and when he pulled up in front of the building, she was waiting. He double-parked while Christie hurried off the curb and into his SUV.
   “Hi.” He leaned over to give her a quick peck on the cheek.
   At the Cliff House, a parking attendant took charge of the SUV. In the restaurant’s narrow foyer, a life-size wood sculpture of a California bear commanded attention. Christie resisted the urge to touch it. They went through and paused on the balcony that overlooked the Sutro Room below. The stairway curved down to the restaurant. She was awed by the windows that rose two stories high, opening up a view of the Pacific all the way to the Golden Gate Bridge. They walked down the curved staircase and were seated at a table next to one of the windows. Below, the surf crashed on a rocky beach, and gulls napped on the sand or winged their way over the water in search of an easy meal.
   “This is the first time I’ve been here,” Christie said. “The architecture and the view are astonishing.”
   “And the food. You’ll soon add that to your list of astonishing. All kidding aside, the Cliff House is an amazing place. It has quite a history: the original Cliff House was destroyed in a fire. It was rebuilt and over the years it’s gone through many reincarnations.”
   “The view is extraordinary.”
   A waiter stopped at their table to take their order. He suggested the clam chowder and the special of the day, baked salmon with a mustard-dill sauce. Christie and Cash agreed that the special sounded good. A busboy filled their cups with coffee while they waited for their meal.
   “My sister suggested you bunk with her family next weekend,” Cash said. “Patty figures that way Mom can’t ambush you with questions. She means well, but she can be a little overwhelming. It wouldn’t hurt to have a little space between the two of you. If you agree, that is.”
   “I’ll take your sister’s advice.” Christie was relieved; she had been concerned about staying with his mother. Since she wasn’t quite sure where her relationship with Cash was headed, she didn’t want to have to dodge personal questions.
   “They are planning a girls’ afternoon out, with shopping and lunch and, according to Patty, more shopping.”
   “That sounds like fun. I haven’t gone on a shopping spree in a long time. I guess I never lost the frugal tactics of college days.”
   “Don’t get started now,” he said. “I don’t want them spoiling you.”
   Christie smiled. She liked the inference in his remark.“It’s not in my nature to splurge. Too much, that is.”
   “It’s all right to splurge once in a while, but I can just see my mother and sister turning you into a shopaholic.”
   “I think I’m going to enjoy girls’ afternoon out, especially if it makes you uncomfortable.” She laughed. “Don’t look so serious.”
   “Not another word about shopping. Mother doesn’t cook much anymore, so over her protests, I’m taking everyone out to dinner. My sister said she’d get a babysitter.”
   “The children aren’t going with us? That seems unfair.”
   “They go to bed early. Besides, they’ll enjoy watching videos and throwing popcorn at each other while we’re gone. You’ll get to spend time with them. Don’t forget you’re going to live with them for two days. You may be begging for peace and quiet before the weekend is over.”
   “Really?”
   “Nah. They’re good kids. I guarantee they’ll win your heart. And I know you will win theirs.” He leaned forward. “Just like you’ve won mine,” he said softly.
   Christie was thrown off stride momentarily, and hesitated before replying.“You know what? I like you a little more each day.”
   “Islike the strongest word you can think of?” He took her hand.
   Much as she wanted to, she could not say the word he hinted at. Not here in a room full of people. Although the view was spectacular, the ambience awesome, it wasn’t private. When she told him that she loved him, it would be just the two of them, at just the right moment.
   “Christie? Aren’t you going to answer my question?”
   “You know how I feel about you.”
   He smiled, evidently satisfied with her answer. Or was he?
   They finished lunch and took the elevator to the upper floor. Christie took one last look at the breathtaking scene below. Maybe it would have been a proper place to admit her feelings to Cash after all. Perhaps she’d missed her chance to hear him reply that he loved her, too.
   The days wore on. Cash worked long hours to fit Bobby Moreno’s case into his already-busy schedule. Christie hadn’t seen him in a couple of days. When they spoke on the phone, he would mention the progress or setbacks on Bobby’s case, and she shared her day’s accomplishments or frustrations. He always remembered to ask about Tosha. Not because he was fond of the cat, she knew, but because Tosha meant so much to her.
   Monday evening, Christie and Kathleen had an early dinner at Fisherman’s Wharf. When Kathleen asked about her relationship with Cash, Christie spilled out her feelings for him. Kathleen encouraged her to be open with Cash. Maybe she was right, Christie thought.
   Tuesday started as an ordinary day. Christie gave Tosha her usual morning treat, picked up theChronicle from her doorstep, and opened it to the local section on the way to the kitchen. She poured a cup of tea and sat down with a cranberry muffin she had picked up at Noah’s the day before. By habit, she scanned the local section first, then checked her horoscope for a lighthearted moment before concentrating on the often-depressing front page.
   A brief article at the bottom of the second page that most readers would have skipped caught her attention. It was an update on Cash’s arson case. Bobby Moreno had refused to take a lie-detector test and a second suspect had been apprehended. The new suspect’s previous convictions read like a crime novel.
   Cash might think that Bobby Moreno was unjustly accused, due to the skeletons in his closet, but it would be difficult convincing a jury that this new suspect was squeaky clean. Christie finished breakfast and dressed. Tosha jumped onto the bed and sat, watching her. She picked the cat up and gave her a kiss.“I’m so happy you are all better, sweet Tosha.” She put the cat down and headed out the door. It would be the first time in a week that she planned on working a full day. An attorney she had often consulted with had referred a new client to her, and they had an appointment at ten.
   The client owned an upscale spa in Napa and one of her employees had swindled her out of a large sum of money. She wanted Christie to verify that the signatures on certain sales orders were fraudulent. The meeting lasted until close to noon. Afterward, Christie drove to Cash’s office. They were going to have lunch together, but she knew that his idea of a workday lunch date might consist of a prepackaged sandwich from a fast-food shop. With a perfunctory hello to the receptionist, Christie walked into Cash’s office. He looked up from some notes.
   “I’m going to have to cancel lunch,” he said. “I’ve got a new client, a young kid from Bobby’s old neighborhood.” He came around the desk and gave her a quick kiss.
   “I read an article in theChronicle about the case this morning. He sounds like a monster in training.”
   “He does have a spotty record, but don’t believe everything you read in the paper. I had the kid outline his activities on the day of the arson.” He nodded toward a notebook. “He gave me the names of people who can verify his whereabouts. I’m deposing one of the witnesses in half an hour.If the DA can’t place him at the scene, he doesn’t have a case.”
   Christie picked up the notebook and examined the irregular scrawl that filled the page. She sat down, unable to take her eyes from the writing.
   “This kid isn’t in the same league with Bobby,” she warned. “He’s very disturbed, capable of outrageous, possibly violent behavior.”
   “What are you talking about? You don’t know anything about him except what was fed to the press.”
   “I see it right here.” She tapped the notebook.
   “What do you mean?”
   “His handwriting. It’s a dead giveaway. Don’t trust him, Cash. He’s trouble.”
   “Give me a break, Christie.”
   “I’m serious. Look at this handwriting! Here”—she pointed—“this indicates a vengeful streak. And this suggests that he’s walking a thin line between rational and irrational behavior. What’s more, the amount of pressure exerted on the pen and the heavy set of the letters indicates that your client is probably being deceitful. I’ll bet you’ll have a difficult time confirming his alibi.”
   “Be real, Christie. Not too long ago you told me that your knowledge of character analysis through handwriting is limited, maybe nil. Now you’re trying to pass yourself off as an expert?”
   His remark stung. She wasn’t an expert, but she knew the fundamentals. Moreno’s pal was trouble with a capitalT, and it infuriated her that Cash refused to listen to her warning.“I told you that there are certain elements that I can recognize. I’m not making this up.” She waved the notebook at him, but he turned away.
   “I don’t want to hear it. This kid has enough problems without anyone inventing more. You’re letting the newspaper article influence you. Stick to determining the authenticity of documents and leave psychoanalysis to psychiatrists.”
   Anger and frustration heated her face. He was putting her down and discarding her advice. Was he turning a deaf ear because he was intent on winning the case no matter what? Was that what he called justice? Her hands balled into fists. She struggled to remain calm, knowing that it would work against her if she blew up.
   “Why won’t you let Bobby Moreno take a lie-detector test?” she asked, unable to let the subject go. “If he’s clean, let him prove it.”
   “I never allow my clients to take a police polygraph exam. There’s nothing to be gained by having a client in an alien environment, confronted by aggressive cops. Hooked up to a polygraph machine under those circumstances, even the bishop of San Francisco might flunk. Bobby would fail on the spot.”
   “Are you saying he’s guilty?”
   “No. I said he wouldn’t pass a polygraph test. Notice I didn’t call it a lie-detector test.”
   “You’re playing with words.”
   “Christie, sit down and stop arguing while I can still control my temper. How much do you know about polygraphs?”
   “They measure skin responses caused by truthfulness or deceit.”
   “Partially correct. They measure changes in skin response, heart rate, and blood pressure due to nervousness or emotional turmoil. They don’t necessarily measure truthfulness. Someone like Bobby is always nervous in the face of authority. His fear of blame in this case would be so disruptive, he probably wouldn’t be able to give his name without prompting the needle to record a negative response.
   “The police want him to take the test for one reason: they are convinced he’ll fail. It’s inadmissible in court, but can be used against him in other, more subtle ways. If he passed it would be glossed over and it might even be suggested that he’s a pathological liar, immune to the mechanizations of the exam. He has nothing to gain by taking it. That’s why I’ve advised him to refuse.”
   “I see.”
   “Do you really?”
   Christie looked out the window, avoiding Cash’s eyes. She didn’t understand his tactics. She did not know if he was following a win-at-all-costs procedure, or if he was rightfully protecting a man he believed was innocent. She turned to face him, and ignored his question. “Heed what I said about the other suspect. That kid’s a time bomb waiting to go off!”
   “He’s my client, Christie. I have to do all that is in my power to prove him innocent.”
   “To set him free to do harm again? That’s…that’s immoral!”
   “Do I have to remind you that this case hasn’t gone to trial? And if it does, twelve people will decide on guilt or innocence. Where’s the immorality in that? At least they won’t be making their decision on the basis of sloppy penmanship.” His voice was thick with anger.
   “That’s a cruel cut.” Christie studied her hands, clasping and unclasping them before she spoke again. “I’m out of my league, Cash. I’ve never been up against crime firsthand. I’m just a document examiner who is confronted with theobjects of misdeeds, not the perpetrators.”
   “Then maybe you need to learn more about the real world before you walk into court again.”
   His tone was nasty. His words had gotten to her. She pressed her hands against her sides to quell the shaking. She prayed her lips wouldn’t quiver and give away her emotions.
   “Pardon me, counselor, I didn’t expect my advice to start a war. And never mind about apologizing for breaking our lunch date. I consider it most opportune that you can’t keep it.”
   Christie turned and stomped out of the office, slamming the door in her wake. She was furious at the way he had spoken to her; he’d been mindless of her feelings. She resented his disdain for her attempt to evaluate the new suspect’s psychological background. Admittedly, she had told him that she rarely went on record on character judgment, but she had also indicated there were exceptions.
   He was assisting a dangerous criminal’s attempt to gain freedom. If a judge agreed to bail reduction, the kid could be on the street in twenty-four hours. Whether or not he was guilty of arson, he was on the edge, and no good would come of his release.
   She understood that not all of Cash’s clients were innocent. He had to provide each client with the best defense possible; that was his job, and he was good at it. One of the best. He undoubtedly considered himself an advocate for justice in this case, as in his other pro bono cases. But freeing a possible criminal into the midst of society to wreak havoc again was far from her definition of justice.
   She had thought they shared the same values, but now she wasn’t sure. This created a quixotic predicament. Her immediate reaction was to back away, at least from working together. But her heart did not want to unravel their personal entanglement. His unpardonable error had been to run roughshod over her opinion. Where was the caring, loving man to whom shewas ready to hand her heart? Was he an apparition? An impostor?
   Downstairs in the lobby, Christie went into the coffee shop and slipped into a booth. She needed a few minutes to overcome her anger. It would not be prudent to get into her car and attack the traffic-ridden streets of San Francisco in her current mood. A waitress asked if she wanted to see a menu. Christie shook her head and ordered coffee. She watched, almost without seeing, as the woman poured the dark brew into a cup. She reached for the cup and stared at her trembling hand, a visual reminder of Cash’s ability to toss her neatly ordered life into a maelstrom.
   Although Cash had suggested she keep the rental car indefinitely, in case he needed her on another case, she decided she would return the Mustang tomorrow.
   Later, in her apartment, Christie changed into an old fleece-lined sweat suit and padded into the kitchen. She slid a mini pizza from the oven, poured a glass of wine, and carried her dinner into the living room. She sat on the couch and smoothed an afghan across her legs. Tosha took the gesture as an invitation to leap onto Christie’s lap. She lifted the cat up and looked into its face. “How can I give him up? I love him, warts and all. Why is my life being turned upside down?”
   Tosha’s tail swung like a pendulum. “You don’t have the answer either, do you?” Christie murmured. She nuzzled the cat, then returned her to her lap. Tosha, undoubtedly miffed at the intrusion, gave a yowl and jumped to the floor. Tail held high, the cat stalked out of the room.
   CHAPTER SIXTEEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   Tomorrow it would be back to the old clunker, Christie mused. Oh, well, it had gotten her where she was going for the past ten years, what did it matter if the paint was flaking from the salt air and she’d never fixed the dent on the right fender where she’d tapped a guardrail last November? And of course her car didn’t have cruise control or a stereo system with a five-disc CD player. And the air-conditioning rattled, that was, when it worked well enough to send spurts of cold air into her face. Who needed air-conditioning in San Francisco, anyway? The fog and sea breeze were good enough. Unless it was an unseasonably warm summer day. Admittedly, there were quite a few of those.
   She turned the keys over in her hand, the leather fob warm against her palm. Yes, the Mustang had been nice. She recalled driving Highway 1, the coastal route, with the top down, the breeze in her hair, the flashing scenery, the carefree feeling.
   This is silly, she reproached herself. A car was a car, and nothing more. Her old buggy was as good as that brand-new Mustang. And so was public transit. She’d spring her car from the cheap long-term parking lot, and life would return to normal. Now, if she would only believe the internal pep talk, she thought as she drove to Cash’s office.
   Paige’s eyebrows shot up when Christie plunked the keys on her desk.
   “Please thank Cash for the rental car,” Christie said. “I won’t need it anymore.”
   “He’s in, would you like to talk to him?”
   “No, I’ve got to catch a cab for an appointment across town. I’ll be late if I don’t get moving.”
   The surprise on Paige’s face did not go unnoticed. With a quick good-bye, Christie hurried out of the office, fearful that any delay could result in a face-to-face meeting with Cash. She knew that he would be offended that she had not given him the keys to the Mustang in person, but she did not trust herself to see him. Not until she was stronger in her determination to sever personal ties. Right now she was fragile and her pledge could easily break.
   She wrote a check for the fee at the car lot, and was relieved that the dusty old Toyota started right up. Swinging a left turn onto the street, her stomach in knots, she knew it would be useless to try and get any work done today. She headed for 280, with Monterey Bay in mind. Ninety minutes later she was in Rio del Mar, and on the stretch of beach she had known for most of her adult life.
   She parked in the Flats. The air was brisk with the salty breeze, and she could taste the ocean. It soothed her. The day was clear and she could see from Monterey to Santa Cruz. A paved walkway stretched from Rio del Mar Beach to the end of Seacliff State Beach. Since it was low tide, she opted to walk the wet, hard-packed sand near the water’s edge. She watched pelicans fly in formation. One broke free and dove in a straight line, like a plane on a suicide mission. The bird hit the water, submerged, and then surfaced, hopefully with a tasty fish in its gullet, and bobbed on the whitecaps.
   Christie’s attention turned to the sand as she searched for treasure: sand dollars, shells, sea glass. As a child she had collected sea glass and filled a pickle jar with the pseudo-gemstones. Seashells went into a small, shallow straw basket that she kept on the bathroom counter.
   Her scrutiny was rewarded: the edge of a sand dollar peeked from beneath the sand. She bent and picked it up. It was smooth from countless rides on the waves, and she knew that inside of it were two tiny“doves,” as she’d seen as a child when her father had broken open a cracked sand dollar and the tiny pieces slipped out. Christie had held them in her hand and thought she was looking at something magical. How easy childhood could be.Why do we have to grow up and lose the magic? she wondered.
   She reached the old cement ship at Seacliff. The huge, broken boat had been constructed during World War I, but had never been commissioned. Instead, it was purchased by a group of entrepreneurs and towed to the beach for use as a seaside gambling casino and dining hall. The boat had its heyday in the late 1920s as a place where wealthy San Franciscans spent their money freely. When that changed the boat fell into disrepair and the sea claimed it. The once regalPalo Alto, as she was named, became a popular fishing pier. A few major storms later, the ocean’s fury swept over the boat and rendered it unsafe. Now the pier ended where the boat began. It was depicted on picture postcards, and although the glory days were long gone, the cement boat was still a landmark beloved by locals.
   Christie sat on a picnic bench and regretted not stopping to pick up lunch before leaving San Francisco. Hunger signals were banging against her empty stomach. She watched a large sailboat cutting across the water, its sails billowing. She wondered if it was theChardonnay. When her father turned sixty, they had celebrated his birthday with a sail on the boat. It had been a very windy day and Christie had found it difficult to keep her balance on the deck. She was terrified until her father grabbed her and anchored her to the rail. She hadn’t sailed again until she met Cash.
   There he was again; she was unable to keep him out of her thoughts. A simple thing like seeing a sailboat racing the wind and Cash was back on her mind.
   She covered her face with her hands.Don’t cry; don’t make a fool of yourself. She pushed away the tears with her knuckles. She stood up and walked to the pier. Gazing over the railing into the rushing surf, she remembered all the times she and her father had gone crabbing. He had given up trying to teach her how to use a fishing pole—no matter how many times she observed her father swing the rod backward over his head and then quickly flick it over the pier so that the line flew far over the water, she could not repeat what she saw. Dropping a circular crab net into the sea didn’t take finesse. Whenever they caught a crab or starfish, she’d inspect it, and then toss it back. The idea of throwing a live crab into boiling water was beyond her. If her family planned on serving crab for dinner, Christie was assured the crustacean would come from the market, already cooked.
   Walking back to Rio del Mar Beach, she was beset with doubts. Was anger clouding her judgment? Sure, Cash had attacked her ability to analyze character through handwriting, but was that such a big deal? Big enough to consider pushing him out of her life? It wasn’t that alone, she reasoned. It was also his bullheadedness, to insist on defending someone who she had warned him could be a threat to others. And his refusal to try and understand why she was disturbed by that action. He had run roughshod over her feelings, and her self-image, too.
   She reached the parking lot and got into her car. It was hot and stuffy from being closed up while she went on her beach trek. The Mustang, with its top down, cool breezes wafting through it, would have been much more comfortable.
   Later, back at her apartment, she was fixing Tosha a treat when the doorbell rang. After wiping her hands on a dishcloth, she put the cat’s bowl on the floor and hurried to answer the door. It was Cash. His large, hulking figure filled the doorway. She thought he looked like Goliath, and she was the child, David. Without a slingshot.
   He did not wait for an invitation to come in. He closed the door and Christie reflexively backed away. His size and the expression on his face were intimidating.
   “You brought back the car.” His voice was gruff and the sound of it sent Tosha scampering into the bedroom. “And did not have the courtesy to stop in and tell me.”
   “I was in a hurry.”
   “What’s going on?”
   “I’m through with the car. I appreciate having had it, but I don’t want to burden you with the cost…”
   “Cut the baloney. You’re put out about something. Be up-front about it.”
   “All right. When I gave you advice about the kid, you steamrolled me. Treated me like an uneducated fool.”
   “I may have been brusque, but I didn’t appreciate having you butt in.”
   “Brusque? You were insulting. It made me realize that we are on different sides of the fence. My perception of right and wrong obviously isn’t the same as yours.”
   “That’s the problem: it’syour perception, not necessarily reality. The kid may have rough edges, but in this case he has a solid alibi. I’m going to represent him, and hopefully I’ll get him out of jail on reasonable bail.”
   “I know what I read in his handwriting.”
   “You read a description of his whereabouts and nothing more.” His voice took on a scathing tone. Christie could feel her face heating up and she hoped it was not obvious. She didn’t want him to know he had the upper hand. She was too sensitive for her own good.
   “You’re the best criminal defense lawyer around, Cash, but that doesn’t mean you’re always right.”
   “I’m right about one thing: you have not convinced me that this kid is guilty. And there’s no way you can.”
   “Sounds like you’ve made your mind up without examining the reason for my concern. You have blinders on; I think you want to be right at all costs.”
   “The kid needs an adequate defense and I agreed to take the case. I’m going to give him the best advice possible and if we go to court, yes, I intend to win. I’m going to do all I can to keep this young man out of jail. And your silly handwriting voodoo will not change my mind.” His voice increased in volume, and she could see that he was becoming angry. She was angry, too. Realizing his anger was fueled by self-righteousness, she decided it would be impossible to win the argument.
   “I don’t intend to be insulted in my own home. Now, if you don’t mind, I have to prepare for a job I’m working on. We don’t have anything more to talk about.” She walked to the door and opened it. “Good night.”
   Cash strode to the door, fury echoing in each step. He brushed past her without a word.
   Like a whirlwind, he had rushed into her life, and then just as quickly had stormed out of it. One minute her spirits had soared, the next they had plummeted. She wished they could smooth things over, but she could not ignore his verbal assault. He had attacked not only her professional ability, but he had gotten personal. He could not take back the words, and she couldn’t forget them. Was the rift in their relationship too wide to bridge? Whatever the answer, the result was written in stone: she might never see Cash again.
   CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   The call came in midafternoon. Christie could hardly understand Elliot. His voice was filled with exuberance. He was talking so fast his words ran together.
   “It’s a girl, Christie. A darling, healthy little granddaughter. Margo came through without any problems, thank God. Hal was going to call you, but he is so wrapped up in holding his daughter, and kissing his wife, he doesn’t have a minute to pick up a phone! I knew you would want to know right away, so I took on announcement duty.”
   “Oh, Elliot, I’m so happy for all of you. And congratulations. Have they named the baby?”
   Elliot’s words slowed, and Christie could tell that he was struggling with emotion. “Emily Anne. Named her after Margo’s mother. Our own little Emily Anne.” There was awe in his voice. “My wife would have been so proud.” Christie detected a break in his voice.
   “Margo and Hal said to tell you the baptism will be two weeks from Sunday. They don’t lose any time, those two. Mark the date on your calendar.”
   “Have you told Cash?”
   “Just got off the phone with him. He said nothing would get in the way of his being there. It will be a fine celebration, I guarantee that.”
   “I’m sure it will, Elliot.”
   After jotting down the hospital that Margo was in, Christie replaced the receiver in its cradle and leaned her elbows on the desk. With her hands clasped together, she rested her chin on her knuckles. Should she tell Margo that she and Cash had broken up? Try to back out of being the godmother? Margo would understand that it was an untenable situation. How could she possibly go to Arizona and be with Cash at the christening? Then again, how could she not? She was committed to being Emily Anne’s godmother, and injured feelings would have to be set aside temporarily. She and Cash would only be together for a few hours; it would be awkward and painful, but she would have to endure that.
   She called a florist and ordered a basket of golden chrysanthemums to be sent to the hospital. This was a grand occasion, and she could not allow personal sensitivities to get in the way. They had all prayed for a normal delivery, a healthy baby, and their prayers had been answered. Yes, it was time to celebrate, but now that Cash was out of her life, Christie would celebrate alone.
   She shook her head. She had to concentrate on her good fortune, not her disappointments. Her career was in its zenith; solving the Farley case had brought a good measure of publicity and new clients. She would no longer have concerns about where her next case and paycheck came from.
   She had received calls from a cadre of lawyers. One firm offered a generous retainer if she would exclusively align herself with them. It was tempting, but she liked being independent.
   She was riffling through a stack of notes when the phone rang. She picked up the receiver and heard her friend’s voice.
   “Hey, Christie, we were supposed to meet for lunch. What happened?”
   “Darn! I forgot, Kathleen. My thoughts have been a bit scattered lately; I didn’t check my calendar this morning. I’m sorry; I would have enjoyed lunch together.”
   “You’re usually on top of things; what’s going on?”
   “Cash and I broke up,” she blurted.
   “I can’t believe it! Was he cheating on you?”
   “Nothing like that. We had an argument, and…well, he behaved badly. Said some things that were hurtful. I told him I didn’t want to see him again.”
   “Just like that? Maybe you overreacted.”
   “I don’t think so. And besides, he hasn’t attempted an apology—not a word to indicate that he’s sorry. So it’s over.”
   “And now you’re miserable?”
   “And now I’m miserable.”
   “Oh, honey, I wish I could help.”
   So do I, Christie thought, but no one could help her get over her feelings or patch up the broken relationship. She had to move on, perhaps take on extra work to get her mind off her heartache. But she was only kidding herself; no amount of work was going to ease the pain that the loss of love evoked. Nothing was going to divert her thoughts from Cash. He intruded every minute that she dropped her guard—and that was most of the time.
   And in two weeks, they would be standing side by side. She would have two weeks of anxiety as she ran scenarios of herself and Cash through her mind before actually being with him again. She would only stay overnight, she decided; she’d find a motel near Margo and Hal and leave immediately after the christening party.
   A few days later, Margo called.“Thank you for the flowers, Christie, they’re lovely.”
   “I’m so happy for you and Hal. Elliot said the baby is beautiful.”
   “Not that he isn’t biased, but he’s right, Emily Anne is a darling. I can’t wait to have you see her. Dad gave you the date for the baptism? You can fly down with Cash the Friday before.”
   “Margo, has Cash mentioned…? Has he said anything…?”
   “Said anything?”
   “We aren’t seeing each other anymore.”
   “Not seeing each other? Oh, Christie, what happened? You and Cash seemed perfect for each other.”
   “We didn’t see eye-to-eye on a professional level, and it spilled over into our personal lives.”
   “Surely it can be fixed. Cash was so happy.”
   “So was I, Margo, so was I.”
   “Perhaps when you are both here in Arizona, with your careers put aside, you can renew your relationship.”
   “It’s too late, Margo. So please don’t think about trying to play matchmaker.” Christie spoke with a light tone, but she was dead serious.
   “I won’t. Well, I can’treally promise that I won’t, but I’lltry not to interfere. And Christie, you’ll stay with us for the weekend? Hal and I haven’t decorated the baby’s room yet—we were too superstitious. Emily Anne is in our room now, anyway, and will be for at least six weeks. So we can easily accommodate you. Please say yes.”
   “I…I’d like that, Margo. Thanks. But I won’t fly in with Cash,” she added. “I’ll take a commercial flight.”
   “I understand. Hal will pick you up at the airport. Just let us know what time. I can’t wait to see you, Christie, and of course, I’m anxious to show off Emily Anne.”
   Christie was happy for Margo and Hal. And Elliot. A loving family.Will I ever have a child of her own? she wondered. Not that she and Cash had known each other long enough to explore that possibility, but with the dissolution of their relationship, her dream of marriage and children had vanished. She would become a workaholic. Perhaps she might eventually save enough money to buy a small vacation place at the beach.
   Evenings she would sit on the couch with her cat on her lap and watch TV or knit a sweater. She would stroke Tosha’s soft fur and listen to her purr. And she would convince herself that she was content. If she had lived in another era, she would be called a spinster. Such a harsh word, she thought, but it fully described the plight she imagined herself facing ten years from now.
   Stop feeling sorry for yourself, she ordered.Be grateful for all you have. But all she had did not include the one thing that she wanted most: Cash’s love.
   The days went by quickly. Christie’s desk was never empty; she had more cases than she could handle in the confines of an eight-hour workday. She spent many evenings poring over handwriting samples, and she was glad to go to bed exhausted. It pushed out the creeping memories of a happier time. She wasn’t unhappy. It was more like living in a state of limbo—there was no misery, but neither was there joy. She had too much to do to dwell upon her loss; too many people depended upon her skills.
   It was on the jet to Arizona that the memories tumbled down upon her. Gone were the desk filled with papers, the briefcase with documents, the laptop with her notes. Nothing stood in the way of her thoughts traveling along the road of sorrow. She did not even have a seatmate to distract her, and the flight was too short to show a movie. She was alone with her thoughts. They spun through her mind like a movie reel. The good, the bad, and the what ifs plagued her all the way to the landing field. When would the pain in her heart ease?Breaking off with Cash was the right thing to do, wasn’t it? she asked herself time after time.
   Hefting her carry-on, she left the plane. She walked toward the security barrier and saw Hal waiting on the other side. They waved at each other, and when she reached him he gave her a big hug. He took her bag and they walked out of the terminal and to his car.
   Christie was quiet on the drive, but Hal obviously didn’t notice. He commandeered the conversation with glowing descriptions of Emily.
   “There go my manners,” he said after a while. “Ever since this baby was born, I can’t stop talking about her.”
   “It’s understandable,” Christie said. “I can’t wait to see her.”
   “Soon enough,” Hal replied.
   It was a pleasant drive to Hal’s home, but a long one. Christie had planned to spend only one night, but Margo had been persuasive. After all, she said, they were friends, and had more to talk about than babies and lost loves. Although, she admitted, talk of one particular baby would undoubtedly highlight the conversation.
   As anxieties besieged her, Christie began to regret not sticking to her original decision to be in and out of Arizona as quickly as possible. Not having a rental car made escape impossible, but Margo had insisted on having Hal pick her up at the airport. Was Cash experiencing the same inner turmoil, or had he moved on? Forgotten her?
   After a while she sensed a shift in Hal’s manner. He stopped talking about Emily Anne, and an uncomfortable silence prevailed. Christie wanted to break it, but didn’t want to chatter. It wasn’t until they were out of the city traffic that Hal spoke again.
   “Margo told me that you and Cash split up. She said you have misgivings about his work. Now, you can tell me to butt out, but there’s something I want you to know.”
   Christie was taken aback. What was this all about?
   “Being a criminal defense attorney doesn’t mean Cash compromises his principles.”
   Hal’s words rankled. “I’m not naive. I understand his role in the justice system,” Christie replied. Did Hal think that she believed defense attorneys only handled innocent clients?
   “Let me tell you a story. It may open your mind.”
   Christie was ready to retort that she was already open-minded, but Hal continued before she could defend herself.
   “Cash got his start in the district attorney’s office. I don’t think you knew that. He doesn’t like to talk about it. He prosecuted some tough cases and won most of them. He was seen as a rising star. He loved the work, seeing justice meted out, being part of a system that worked. He didn’t think anything could be sweeter.”
   Christie wondered where the story was going.
   “Then he got a high-profile rape case. At first he was eager to prosecute; he believed rape was a vicious crime that needed a tough penalty. But as he went over the evidence, he began to wonder if they had the wrong person. He told me the case didn’t sit right. He raised doubts with his boss, but it was an election year. The case had gotten a lot of publicity. A conviction meant votes.
   “Cash was persistent in searching for the truth. He enlisted the detective who’d made the collar, and they reinterviewed a key witness. When the DA got wind of what was going on, he pulled Cash off the case and gave it to another ADA. The case went to trial and the young man was convicted. Cashcame over to our place, distraught. He said that when the jury pronounced their verdict, that young man lost his entire future. Cash was devastated by the injustice. He handed in his resignation, and the following week he joined a criminal defense team. He filed an appeal on the young man’s behalf and eventually the verdict was reversed. Three years later, the actual rapist was apprehended.”
   Christie looked out the window. The countryside was a blur. It was hard to see through the tears that pooled in her eyes.
   “Christie?” Hal prompted.
   She was so filled with emotion she was unable to speak. Hal turned toward her questioningly, and she nodded. Too late, she understood. It wasn’t just about the Bobby Morenos of the world, it was about justice. And she knew that sometimes in that quest there were unsavory characters, despicable crimes. Perhaps Cash had to plow through those to make certain that one falsely accused person had his day in court.
   They arrived at the house. Before they were halfway up the walk, the front door swung open. Margo, framed in the doorway, called a greeting. Emily Anne was in her arms. Christie hastened to see the baby.
   “It’s so good to see you, Christie. Here’s your auntie, Emily dear.”
   Christie smiled at the child cradled in Margo’s arms. Elliot was right. Emily Anne was beautiful.
   They entered the house and Margo led the way into the kitchen.
   “I have a little snack for you. I heard that they don’t even offer peanuts on that flight nowadays.”
   A plate of sandwiches cut into quarters and a pitcher of iced tea were on the table. Margo handed the baby to Christie while she set out luncheon plates and napkins. Christie looked at Emily Anne closely and said that she was the cutest baby she had ever seen. Emily Anne was soft and smelled like a spring garden of talcum powder and baby shampoo. Her blue eyes were inquisitive, and her bowed mouth reminded Christie of an old-fashioned Kewpie doll. Her tiny fingers curled around Christie’s thumb and as she gurgled a melody, Christie insisted Emily Anne was trying to talk to her. Cradling the baby against her chest, she kissed her on the forehead.
   “Has Cash seen her yet?”
   “He was here last night. What a softie. He was cooing and spouting baby talk. His adversaries would have been shocked to see the way he acted. He took pictures of Emily Anne with his iPhone, and you would have thought that he was setting up a modeling portfolio. He shot her from every angle imaginable.”
   Margo reached for Emily Anne, and Christie felt a fleeting chill when her arms were empty. Would she ever hold a baby of her own? Experience the bond between mother and child?What is wrong with me? she wondered. She had been content with her life, had friends, was on a strong career path, lived in one of the finest cities in the country. Nothing had been missing. Not until Cash came into her life and added a new dimension to her world. Now he was gone, and there was an empty space in her days and nights. Each went by without significance. She no longer woke with the anticipation of being with Cash, feeling his arms around her. Without him, life was as bland as bread pudding without a dash of whipped cream or a spoonful of berries.
   “Christie?”
   “Yes, Margo?”
   “It isn’t too late to fix the rift between you and Cash. Don’t let him go. He loves you. He may not have told you in so many words, but it’s obvious to those of us who’ve known him a long time. It would be a terrible mistake not to fight to get him back. Unless you don’t care enough?”
   “I do care. I can’t concentrate anymore, can’t sleep. I’m a mess. But I don’t know how to reverse what has been done.”
   “One of you has to take the first step to repair the relationship. Go for it, Christie, or you will be sorry for the rest of your life. I’m not going to say any more. Now, how was your flight?”
   “Tiring. I had to be up early to get to the airport ninety minutes before flight time, then once on board there was a delay. Sitting on the runway for twenty minutes while a cadre of jets were lined up in front of us jangled my nerves.”
   “How thoughtless of me. You need to rest. Here I am showing off Emily Anne with no regard for your comfort. Finish your sandwich and you can take a nap.”
   Christie did not resist. One side of her told her to be a proper guest, but the other wanted to hide from any more talk about Cash, and whatever was a reminder of him. Yet everything in this house, including Margo, reminded her of what she had enjoyed and lost.
   An hour and a half later she rejoined Margo in the family room. Sunset was shooting vermilion swirls across the sky. Margo told her that Cash had called and had invited himself to dinner. Margo hadn’t had a chance to mention that Christie had arrived before he severed the connection.
   Hal came into the room with a tray.“Margo thought you might like a cup of tea. We usually have a cup around now. A few cookies, too, to hold us until dinner.”
   “Tell Christie the truth, Hal. We used to have a cocktail and snacks, but I’m nursing, so alcohol is out. I keep telling Hal that he and Elliot can have a drink without me, but sweet as my husband is, he insists that he likes our newly instituted teatime.”
   “I like playing the martyr role,” Hal said. “Makes me feel chivalrous.”
   The sound of the front door opening and closing gave Christie a jolt. Was it Cash? How would she react after all these weeks? Footsteps echoed on the tiles and she held her breath. Elliot walked into the room, his shirtsleeves splattered with paint. Christie breathed a sigh of relief.
   “Not too late for tea, am I?”
   “No, Daddy, Hal just brought the tray in. We have lemon cookies, too. Mama’s recipe.”
   “My favorite. Your mother made the best lemon cookies.”
   It was good to hear Elliot mention his wife. Margo had told Christie that for months after her mother’s death, Elliot could not bear to hear his wife’s name spoken. His grief had prevented him from drawing comfort from pleasant memories. Elliot had dwelled on his wife’s death, the slow, inexorable march toward the end of her life. That had been hard on Margo, because she wanted to remember the good times, not the dying process. Christie surmised that the miracle of a new life had infused Elliot with new love and hope.
   “How are your art lessons coming along?” Elliot asked.
   “I’ve had to put them on hold. First the Farley case took up an inordinate amount of time, then the publicity brought a run of new clients.”
   “It would be a shame if you gave up.”
   “I’m going to try for a weekend seminar at Point Reyes. The instructor leans toward seaside locations, and that suits me.”
   “Christie is going to give us competition, Daddy,” Margo said.
   “I doubt that. But I enjoy painting and I’m glad that Margo pushed me into joining a class.”
   Margo smiled at her and was about to say something when the doorbell chimed. Christie tensed. Hal crossed the family room to answer the door. Voices in the entry. Cash’s deep voice. Jovial. Hal’s laughter. Two men who had been friends since childhood, and a wife and father-in-law who rounded out the familiar circle.Where do I fit? she wondered.On the outside was the answer. Definitely on the outside.
   Two sets of footsteps sounded briskly across the tiles, then were muted by the rug. Christie willed herself to look up, to meet Cash’s face, to paste a smile on hers.Act natural, she told herself, and wondered what natural was when your heart was breaking.
   Cash bent to kiss Margo on the cheek, chucked Emily Anne’s chin, shook hands with Elliot, and nodded in Christie’s direction. She tried to speak, to say hello, but her throat was constricted, so she simply nodded back. She wished that she were holding the baby—she needed a distraction, something or someone to focus on. Other than Cash.
   Hal offered Cash a mug of tea, and Cash clapped his friend on the back.
   “I never thought you’d become a teetotaler,” he said.
   “I’m starting to like it,” Hal replied.
   “He likes the cookies that come with it,” Elliot said.
   “Hal, you’re blushing,” Margo teased.
   The easy bantering between friends did not ease the tension that crackled between Christie and Cash. It only underlined the thought that raced through her mind: that she did not belong.
   Hal reached for the baby. Christie watched him kiss Emily Anne on the cheek as he brought her against his chest.“Sweet baby,” he cooed. Emily Anne’s little hands balled into tiny fists, and she waved them up and down. She sputtered and a bit of drool dribbled from the corner of her mouth. Margo handed Hal a washcloth and he dabbed at Emily Anne’s lips. The baby shook her head from side to side, resisting her father’s attempt to clean her. She scrunched her face into wrinkles.
   “She’s going to cry,” Elliot said.
   “Here, let me have her for a minute.” Cash took the baby, cradled her in his arms, and then gently positioned her so that her head rested on his shoulder. He patted her back as he rocked on the balls of his feet, crooning a soft melody. The baby burped and giggled, her mood reversed.
   “Hey, buddy,” Hal said, “you’re a natural.”
   “I’ve had a lot of experience with my sister’s kids. She wrangled me into babysitting when they were small.”
   Christie agreed with Hal’s assessment. The way Cash held the baby, the expression on his face, the gentleness in his hands, seemed natural. It was a side of him that was opposite his hard, professional persona. Perhaps this was his true side. His friends obviously were well acquainted with this part of Cash’s character—the important part, she theorized. If only she had recognized it sooner.
   Christie looked up. Margo was staring at her, perhaps appraising her?
   “How about giving Christie a turn with Emily, Cash?”
   Without a word, Cash’s expression went neutral. He carefully placed Emily into Christie’s arms. His hands brushed her shoulder and a lightning flash shot through her. He still had the power to make her tremble. She looked into the baby’s face. Innocent blue eyes stared back at her, and chubby hands flailed energetically. Christie stroked the back of the baby’s hand with her thumb. Emily Anne gurgled and Christie smiled. She turned to Margo and read approval in her face. Everyone was smiling at her and Emily, and Christie realized how contagious a baby’s smile and laughter were. She dared a glance at Cash and then quickly looked away, but not before she noticed he appeared more relaxed. His posture was no longer stiff. Perhaps they would get through this weekend without too much grief after all.
   In the morning, the household was abuzz. The christening was scheduled for eleven o’clock at the old church. After a quick cup of tea and muffins, Margo began primping the baby. Christie watched, spellbound, as the new mother brushed her baby’s soft fluff of hair, and clipped a pink-and-white bow on the top of her head. Margo asked Christie to bring her the white cotton-and-lace christening gown that was spread out on the bed.
   “The gown is a family heirloom,” Margo said. “My mother and I were both baptized in it. And now it’s Emily Anne’s turn.” Margo fingered the loops of lace that fringed the hem. The bodice was decorated with satin rosebuds, and a satin ribbon was tied in a bow at the waist. The skirt fellin yards of gathers.
   “It’s exquisite.”
   “My grandmother made it. She was an artist in her own right, don’t you think?” Margo slipped the dress over her baby’s head, eased Emily’s arms into the sleeves, and patted the dress into its full length. She fastened a trio of tiny pearl buttons at the back. “There.” She held the baby up for Christie’s inspection.
   “I’d say that it’s time to get out the cameras,” Christie said.
   “What’s that about cameras?” Hal said as he entered the room.
   “Your daughter is a star, and I think we need to record this moment for posterity.”
   “You’re right. I’ve got a brand-new video camera and Elliot put a new card in his digital. This is going to be the most-photographed baby in town.”
   It was a short drive to the church. Lilies decorated the altar. The christening party gathered in the sanctuary, and Emily Anne did not even protest when dipped into the baptismal water. Smiles flashed for the camera and photo after photo was snapped.
   Hal and Margo hosted a reception to celebrate their little darling’s baptism and their home was filled with happy chatter and tinkling glasses as toasts were proclaimed. Christie avoided contact with Cash by blending with a group of guests on the patio and joining in small talk and quiet laughter. She could not wait for the day to end.
   In the morning before Christie left for the airport, Elliot printed a set of christening photographs for her. Margo kissed Christie on the cheek, and told her that she expected to see her on Emily’s birthday, if not sooner.
   On the plane Christie tried to read a paperback she had picked up in the terminal, but it was impossible. She couldn’t concentrate, and after reading the same paragraph four times, she gave up and stashed the book into the seat pocket. She pulled a pair of earphones from her purse, shoved the plug into the jack in the armrest, and tuned in a soft-rock station. The music should have relaxed her, but thoughts ofCash intruded and would not go away.
   At San Francisco Airport, the jet couldn’t land quickly enough to suit her. She was a bundle of nerves, and she wanted to be home, snuggled with her cat. When the seat-belt signs were turned off, she reached under the seat in front of her and slid her overnighter out. She stood, ready for the exodus.
   She was glad that she had splurged on short-term parking and didn’t have to wait for a shuttle. She drove home through the last vestige of daylight. Before she turned the key in the door, she heard Tosha loudly meowing as though she had been abandoned for a week. Christie pushed the door open, dropped the carry-on to the floor, and swept the cat into her arms.Tosha purred contentedly, mollified to at last be in her person’s arms.
   Sleep was elusive. Cash appeared in her dreams, his arms outstretched in a welcoming gesture. She ran to him, but just before she reached him, he crossed his arms over his chest, laughed at her, then disappeared. She shook herself awake and in the hazy almost-morning light was overwhelmed by despair.
   Groggy, she dressed and put the kettle on. Even at this early-morning hour, Tosha danced at her feet, ready for a treat. She fed the cat and fixed tea. She carried the mug into the living room and sat on the couch.
   Pictures were fanned across the coffee table and she leaned forward and studied them. The snapshots chronicled happy scenes. Friendly scenes. A picture of her and Cash at the altar, with the baby between them, leaped out at her. Looking at the photo, a chill rippled through her. Elliot had snapped the picture, and the moment had been captured. For a few seconds, she and Cash had seemingly forgotten the chasm that divided them. In their mutual affection for Emily Anne, they had been joined together. Their eyes sparkled, their smiles glowed; for a few moments they were a couple again.Only for a few moments, she mused,only for a few moments.
   Regret swelled inside her. Regret for not allowing the good times to override the bad. Now it was too late. The sweetness was gone, and only bitterness remained. For a short time it had seemed that the anger and accusations that separated her and Cash had vanished. But the photos created an illusion; the trip back to San Francisco in separate planes had been a dramatic indication of reality.
   She picked up a picture of herself with baby Emily cradled in her arms; Cash hovered over her. Doting godparents: a typical Kodak moment. They looked like a couple, she thought. A happy pair. But the picture lied. She pressed the four-by-six-inch snapshot to her breast and the tears she had tried to hold back began to fall.
   Tosha bounced onto Christie’s lap and nuzzled her.
   “Dearest Tosha, thanks for the sympathy.” She gently rubbed her cat’s head and Tosha purred in return.
   Christie realized that she might never see Margo and the baby again. Her connection with them was tenuous at best without Cash. How could she crowd into their life when it was awkward to be in the same room with their best friend? She had to respect their loyalty. It wouldn’t be right to force them to choose. She was now an outsider, and that hurt. She wanted to see baby Emily grow up. That was what godparents did. And she wanted a child of her own.Now where did that come from? she wondered. Breaking off with Cash wasn’t going to be the end of the world. Someday she would marry and have children. But she didn’t want just anybody’s children, she wanted Cash’s.
   She gently nudged Tosha aside, stood and walked to the window. She propped her elbows on the sill and looked out into the waking light. Across the way the windows of an old Victorian glowed like copper in the golden sunrise. San Francisco was waking up. She loved the energy and beauty of the city: Golden Gate Park, the theater, museums, beaches—the list was endless. And yet…and yet…she would give it all up to mend the rift between her and Cash. But it wasn’t in the cards. She turned and hugged herself in a protective, insular gesture. Empty arms, broken heart.
   She tried to cast off her depression by thinking of her work schedule. After all, she had a thriving business. Maybe her clients’ problems would help her forget, for just a little while, her own. Boarding a cable car, she grumbled quietly at the increase in the fare. Still, it was cheaper than parking fees and parking tickets.
   When she’d first started working with Tom, she had driven to work every day, but that had resulted in a purse full of citations. The street spaces had time limits, and although she tried to remember to move her car periodically, it never failed that the parking gestapo caught up with her.
   Christie studied the passengers sitting across from her—anything to keep her mind occupied, no space for lingering on personal issues. A well-dressed career-type woman clutched a large, leather, tote-like briefcase. The tote appeared new and expensive, probably purchased as a symbol of success, hoped for or achieved. In contrast, next to her a young man in baggy basketball shorts had earphones plugged into his ears, and his head nodded in tune to whatever hip-hop he was hearing. Each in their own way appeared to face the start of the day with a measure of pleasure. She hoped she would soon be able to do the same. Surely she deserved that.
   Arriving at the office, she was surprised to see that Tom was not at his desk.He must be in the field, she thought. Without the mindless coffee-and-doughnut chatter they usually indulged in at nine o’clock, she would not easily keep thoughts of Cash at bay. She checked for telephone messages and other notes, but her desk was clear, quite a change from the pressure-cooker days when the Farley case absorbed all her energy.
   She rested her head on one hand and tapped a pen on the desk with the other. Where would she start? In truth, she did not have any cases on the calendar. Calls had come in and appointments had been made, but today was free. It was a good time for catch-up, she thought. She could tackle the paperwork that nagged at her, which she routinely avoided. Procrastination was not her style, except when it came to mundane filing and account ledgers. If business continued to increase, she would consider sharing Tom’s bookkeeper.
   She tugged theChronicle from her tote bag. She pulled the rubber band off and laid the paper across her desk. She scanned her favorite sections; buried at the bottom of local news was a brief article that she almost missed.“San Francisco attorney pleads client guilty,” the headline read. “In a turnaround move, T. Cash McCullough pleaded his client guilty of arson and aggravated assault.” Reading the rest of the article, Christie was shocked that Cash had accepted a plea bargain from the district attorney. “A second client, who had been a person of interest, is no longer being investigated,” the article concluded.
   What had caused Cash to change direction with the kid, she wondered. What evidence had convinced him to abandon a not-guilty plea?
   Sharon poked her head in the door.“I’m making a pot of coffee, would you like a cup?”
   “That would be great. I wouldn’t mind a little company while I drink it, if you’re not too busy.”
   Sharon appeared startled at the request. Christie rarely took the time for a coffee klatch with her.“Unless you’d rather not.”
   “I’d enjoy a time-out. Coffee should be ready in a few minutes.”
   Christie realized that the invitation had been a delaying tactic. Subconsciously she was concerned that thoughts of Cash would insinuate into any unfilled space in her mind. TheChronicle story brought a torrent of questions, and no answers.
   When Sharon returned with the coffee, she had a small brown bag with her.“I packed a piece of cake with my lunch. Baked it myself, a Bundt cake from a mix. Would you like to share?”
   The cake Sharon withdrew from the bag was dark chocolate, and it looked sinfully rich.“I would love a piece,” Christie said. “Why not start the day with decadence?”
   Sharon smiled.“I agree. My best friend’s motto has always been that you should start a meal with dessert, that way if anything happens to you before the end of the meal you won’t have missed out on the best part.”
   “Good thinking,” Christie said.
   She held her coffee mug between her hands and gazed into the dark brew. Her thoughts had already wandered to Cash. What was he doing right now? Was he thinking about their time together in Arizona?
   “You seem lost,” Sharon said.
   “Am I that transparent?”
   “Not to an outsider, but you aren’t usually so quiet. What’s going on? Or am I out of place to ask?”
   “It’s complicated.”
   “Yes?” Sharon prodded.
   “You know I was seeing Cash McCullough, the attorney.” Sharon nodded. “Well, I’m not seeing him anymore.”
   “Oh, I’m sorry. Or are you glad that you’ve broken up?”
   Christie ignored the question.“We had a blowup because I gave him advice based on an analysis of a client’s handwriting. He was furious, and I reacted in kind. End of story.”
   “It can’t be the end if you care for each other.”
   Christie was silent. How could she answer?
   “Surely you can make up.”
   “I…I don’t know if I want to make up. I don’t know if I can live with the knowledge that Cash represents people that are a threat to society.”
   “Someone has to represent them.”
   “Yes, someone does.” But did it have to be the man she loved?
   “You have to draw a line between his work and your relationship. If he treats you well, that’s what counts.”
   “Maybe. But I think it’s too late to change anything.”
   “It’s never too late. Talk to him.”
   Sharon took her empty coffee mug and returned to her desk, leaving Christie alone in her office.Talk to him—the words echoed in her mind. Margo had said the same thing.Talk to him. Why did they make it sound so easy, when it wasn’t?
   TheChronicle article seemed to indicate that he had reconsidered her warning, perhaps admitting to himself, at least, that he’d been wrong. Margo had insisted that one of them had to take the first step, and that it would be a smart move if she was the one. If she didn’t she might regret it for the rest of her life. But if she allowed his treatment of her to stand, it could set the course for their relationship. He had to respect her or she would lose an important part of herself.
   She hadn’t become angry because he dismissed her advice; what had infuriated her was the way he had done it. Could she overlook that? If he had exhibited remorse for his treatment of her, she’d have forgiven him on the spot. Or maybe she would have simmered for a while andthen given him a second chance. Now, too much time had passed, and the emotional distance had widened.
   Sharon had been emphatic in pointing out that the important consideration was how Cash treated her personally. Until the argument he had been thoughtful and caring. He used his time and money to help others: the pro bono cases, the housekeeper’s nephew’s education, his devotion to family and friends, the way he was there for her when Tosha took ill. These were outstanding traits. She had jumped on him about the kid, had focused on his unsavory, possibly dangerous clients, while forgetting all the good he did for the community and beyond. He had trampled upon her feelings, but was that enough reason to cast aside his compassionate, loving ways?
   She faced a huge dilemma: whether to go to Cash or stand fast. Her future depended on the decision.
   Sunlight flooded her office. She needed to get some air. She had no plan of action, but a walk would give her time to think. She stood up and yanked her jacket from the coatrack. As she moved around the desk, she shoved an arm into one sleeve and struggled with the other. Passing through the front office, she slung her purse over her shoulder and grabbed the doorknob.“I’ll be gone for the rest of the day, Sharon,” she said as she was halfway out the door. “Hold down the fort.”
   Sharon smiled a sort of knowing smile. She undoubtedly assumed that Christie was going to act on her advice. If only it was that easy.
   She walked to the elevator and pushed the button for the lobby. She watched the indicator light slowly move upward. The elevator stopped at the third floor, the fifth, the sixth. Her office was on the tenth and she was becoming impatient. Finally, the arrow above the door blinked red and a bell jangled. The doors slid open, and Christie waited while two men in business suits walked out, their conversation steady as they crossed the tiles. She stepped inside and pushed the button. The ride down was agonizingly slow; the elevator stopped at almost every floor. The car filled, and with each start and stop she was bumped by one of the passengers.
   The elevator finally reached the lobby and the door slowly slid open. The push was on as bodies crushed against one another, eager to be first out of the car. Christie held back, not wanting to be caught up in the stampede. She took a step forward, then froze. Like an apparition, Cash stood, shoulders above the others waiting to enter the elevator.
   Shock registered on his face. Or was it disdain, she wondered. She hit the button to close the doors. She knew it was a cowardly thing to do, but Cash looked formidable. The doors began to slide together, blocking her view. The waiting passengers shouted, outraged at her action. She hit the button for the tenth floor. The doors were only inches apart when she saw Cash’s hands grip the edges. The doors reversed and slid open. Cash stepped onto the elevator and the doors closed behind him.
   “What are you doing here?” she asked. Her knees felt weak; she leaned against the wall for support. She wanted to get off at the next floor, flee the elevator, and put distance between them.
   “I’ve been miserable ever since we had that fight. I miss you.”
   Did she dare tell him how she felt? That she had missed him, too? Was it that easy?“I read that the kid took a plea bargain.”What an inane thing to say, she thought.I’m chattering. I’ve got to stop.
   “Yes,” he replied. “I took your advice. I thought it through, and realized that you would not have said what you did unless you were quite positive.”
   “You could have told me,” she said.
   “I was on my way to do that right now. When the elevator doors opened and I saw you standing there, I thought it was my imagination.” He put his hands on her shoulders. “I’m sorry for what I said. Shall we start all over?”
   “Start all over? I’d rather begin where we left off, except for our disagreement, of course. We were doing all right, don’t you think?”
   “More than all right.” Cash pulled her away from the wall and swept her into his arms. His mouth came down on hers. She felt as though she was spiraling out of the universe. Her heart beat fast and she became light-headed.
   “I love you, Christie. I don’t want you to walk out of my life again.”
   “I love you, too.” She twisted her fingers into his hair and pulled his face back to hers. As the kiss deepened, the elevator came to a halt and the door swished open. Christie’s ears were assaulted with applause. She opened her eyes and looked over Cash’s shoulder at half a dozen smiling people. They were like a theater audience, applauding, rendering a standing ovation at a happy ending to a play. Although this was real life, Christie knew that happily-ever-after endings could come true.
   ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
   I want to thank Ellen Mickelsen, former publisher of Avalon Books, and Lia Brown, former editor, for their belief inSilver Serenade. A thank you also to copy editor Sara Brady, whose suggestions made my book stronger. Thanks go to BFF Jackie Cathcart for providing a detailed description of San Francisco’s spectacular Cliff House; her luncheon experience became Christie’s. Last, but not least: I am grateful for my grandson Sean Ferraro taking me on a virtual hike to Big Sur’s gorge; and for my readers…I know you’re out there.
   ABOUT THE AUTHOR
    [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 
 [Картинка: i_003.jpg] 

   Photo by Kathleen Ferraro

   Gerry O’Hara is a charter member of Romance Writers of America and has taught writing for publication seminars at Bay Area community colleges. She has penned several contemporary romance novels, includingEmerald Sky andRace Against Love, and has also contributed articles relating to travel, adventure, and camping to publications such asTrailer Travel,Trailer Life, andCalifornia Camper. For over two decades she has taught writing to residents of a Silicon Valley retirement community, and in 2009 they honored her with the first annual Sunny View Volunteer of the Year Award. She and her husband divide their time between Monterey Bay and Lake Tahoe. In addition to enjoying the nature and scenery of both locales, O’Hara’s hobbies include photography, reading, crafting, and spending time with family.

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/728516
