
   Joe Weber, R. J. Pineiro
   Ashes of Victory
   Also by Joe Weber
   DEFCON One
   Shadow Flight
   Rules of Engagement
   Targets of Opportunity
   Honorable Enemies
   Primary Target
   Assured Response
   Dancing with the Dragon
   Also by R. J. Pineiro
   Siege of Lightning
   Ultimatum
   Retribution
   Exposure
   Breakthrough
   01-01-00
   Y2K
   Shutdown
   Conspiracy.com
   Firewall
   Cyberterror
   Havoc
   SpyWare
   The Eagle and the Cross
   The Fall
   Without Mercy*
   Without Fear*
   *with Colonel David Hunt
   EPIGRAPH
   We will not prematurely or unnecessarily risk the cost of worldwide nuclear war in which even the fruits of victory would be ashes in our mouth.— JOHN F. KENNEDY

   PROLOGUETAIWAN STRAIT, SEPTEMBER 22, 1958
   Bastards. You bastards!
   Lieutenant Deng Xiangsui of the People’s Liberation Army Air Force tightened his grip on the control column of his MiG-17F “Fresco” as he glared in disbelief at the distant aerial battle marring the clear skies beyond his cockpit’s windscreen.
   The shoreline of mainland China rushed by ten thousand feet beneath the swept-wing interceptor, replaced by coastal waters as the newly minted pilot advanced the throttle fully forward with his left hand.
   How can this be happening to—?
   The kick of the new VK-1F engine’s afterburner slammed him into his seat as he gasped beneath his oxygen mask. Deng had practiced going into burner in a simulator but never in an actual MiG. Fuel simply cost too much.
   Now, though, that expensive fuel flowed freely, injected into the exhaust nozzle by the revolutionary engine and doubling his rate of climb, rocketing the Fresco through eighteen thousand feet in thirty seconds.
   Struggling to stay ahead of the nimble jet, Deng reduced throttle and eased the control column forward and to the right while pushing right rudder to roll. The MiG entered an inverted dive.
   Gathering airspeed, he dropped over one of the several F-86 Sabres from Taiwan’s air force that were decimating the MiGs with a new type of air-to-air missile.
   For years, the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China had engaged in intermittent battle over the Taiwan Strait as China sought to prevent Taiwanese expansion to the island of Kinmen and the nearby Matsu archipelago. The United States had stepped in to assist the Taiwanese with weapons and personnel.
   Chinese coastal radar stations had detected the ROC aircraft patrolling the waters near the international line and had dispatched a squadron of the PLAAF’s finest out of nearby Fuzhou Air Base to tail the Taiwanese fighters. But the Sabres had surprised the MiGs by suddenly engaging their weapons, killing nearly all of them in under five minutes. That had prompted a second wave of PLAAF fighters to enter the fray, only to find themselves facing the same fate. Deng, along with the rest of the rookies, formed the third and last wave until reinforcements could arrive from Zhangzhou and Wenzhou.
   Deng frowned, recalling the parting words of his commander:“Hold the line at all cost. Protect the homeland.”
   Unlike the rest of the pilots in his class, mostly sons of Beijing party officials, Deng was the son of a local fisherman who’d nurtured his son’s gift for math, science, and aviation. His father was a devout Taoist who had been shamed when his daughter — Deng’s older sister — ran away to Hong Kong and fell into a life of depravity. But he had risen above the dishonor and provided Deng with an education, encouraging him to study hard and push himself, even when facing overwhelming odds.
   Every time you walk away from the trials of life because of the fear of failure, a part of you dies.
   Although not a religious man like his father, Deng was nevertheless inspired by his wisdom and resilience, and he went on to become the pride of his fishing village south of Fuzhou, overshadowing the disgrace brought to his family by his sister.
   And I’ll be damned if I allow any of these bastards near home.
   Although the Mikoyan-Gurevich fighter had been designed as a“high-subsonic” jet, Deng’s Soviet instructors had shown him how to dash to just beyond the speed of sound during dives.
   He used the technique to his advantage now, dropping from above like a hawk with the sun blazing behind him, making himself harder to spot. Working the throttle, control column, and rudder pedals, he closed in on an F-86 engaging one of the last surviving MiGs from the second wave. It belonged to Lieutenant Liko Jiechi, an upperclassman at the academy and one of his best friends.
   Liko’s voice came over the radio,“I can’t shake him!”
   Deng pressed on, listening to Liko on the squadron frequency as the older and more experienced pilot performed a series of turn reversals and flight path overshoots, known as flat scissors, trying to stay out of phase with the attacking Sabre.
   “I’m on it, Liko!”
   “Deng? Get him off of me!”
   “Almost there!” he replied, working the angle, centering the F-86’s cockpit in the ASP-4N optical gunsight for just a few seconds, matching its weaving flight pattern. Activating the SRC-3 radar, he squeezed the trigger on the control column.
   The MiG rumbled as a K-5 air-to-air missile fired from beneath his port wing and immediately tracked the radar beam that Deng struggled to keep focused on the Sabre.
   Dashing to Mach 3, the Soviet-made missile closed the gap in two seconds. Its thirteen-kilogram high-explosive warhead detonated just forward of the F-86, shattering the canopy as the blast engulfed the cockpit, but not before a flash of light appeared beneath the Sabre’s starboard wing.
   Missile!
   As the Taiwanese jet fell from the skies in a blaze of flames and smoke, the missile— already locked on Liko’s MiG — gained as Liko engaged in evasive maneuvers in full burner. He rolled, then dove, briefly going supersonic, before pulling up and cutting left.
   It’s tracking his hot exhaust, Deng thought, recalling his Soviet trainers a few months earlier warning the class about the“shoot-and-forget” heat-seeking technology of a new air-to-air weapon developed by the Americans.
   He also remembered its strange name.
   Sidewinder.
   And that all meant Liko’s MiG was doomed. The MiG-17F lacked heat-seeking countermeasures.
   “Eject, Liko! Get out of there!”
   “Negative,” he replied.“I can shake it.”
   Liko executed a series of barrel rolls, shifting the MiG laterally from its projected flight path onto a new path in an attempt to confuse the missile, but the Sidewinder remained locked on his exhaust while closing in at a staggering rate.
   “Get out! Now, Liko!”
   Seconds later, the missile shot right up the MiG’s exhaust nozzle as the canopy flew back, and the solid-fuel booster propelled Liko’s KK-2 ejection seat skyward. But it was too late.
   The explosion propagated from the rear to the front, catching Liko in its blast radius as he rocketed away from the wreckage. Liko, engulfed in flames, volleyed off like a comet before falling into the ocean.
   Anger swelled in Deng’s throat. He thought of Liko’s young wife and newborn son back in Beijing. Fury clouded his thoughts, until the wise words of his father suddenly emerged with unparalleled clarity.
   Do not yield to anger.
   Mustering control, Deng forced his emotions aside and turned back into the fray, spotting a pair of F-86s tracking another Fresco. Cutting hard left, he cringed as the g-forces piled up on him, the fuselage trembling from the stress. His vision briefly narrowed.
   Working the flight controls and throttle, he eased just behind the rightmost Sabre, the wingman for the lead F-86 firing its guns at the MiG, which performed a series of evasive maneuvers in an attempt to escape.
   Deng had a second K-5 plus the cannons. Lining up the trailing Sabre in his gunsight, he pointed the SRC-3 beam-guiding system just aft of the cockpit and fired.
   The eight-foot-long missile took off in a blaze from beneath his starboard wing, slaved to the narrow radar beam focused on the—
   Gunfire thundered behind him, and a glance at the rearview periscope confirmed a Sabre closing in with its cannons burning.
   Dammit!
   Breaking hard left, he frowned as the evasive maneuver shifted the radar-guiding beam, causing the K-5 also to turn left at the last second, missing the F-86, and veering aimlessly in the morning sky.
   Watching a swarm of tracers fill the space that his MiG had occupied a second before, Deng gazed at the rearview periscope again, inching up to the speed of sound just as the F-86 reappeared.
   He took note of the lack of Sidewinders under its wings; the Taiwanese pilot either hadn’t had any or had already spent them. Either way, it meant the Sabre would have to get close enough to use its cannons again.
   And that gave him an idea.
   Deng forced the MiG into a vertical climb in full burner to twenty-five thousand feet before executing a barrel roll over the top, forcing the Sabre to follow. But the Sabre’s lower thrust-to-weight ratio relative to the MiG-17F’s caused it to slow down halfway up the climb, allowing Deng to pull his nose through the bottom of the barrel roll faster, gaining a brief angle on the Taiwanese fighter. Flipping his weapons selector to the twin Nudelman-Rikhter NR-23 cannons located beneath the fighter’s nose, he squeezed the trigger the moment the Sabre rushed through his gunsight.
   The control column vibrated in his right hand as 23 mm shells blasted at the rate of 650 per minute, tearing through the fighter’s empennage as it dashed past him, sending it spinning out of control toward the—
   A flash of light off his port wingtip instinctively made him swing the jet in the opposite direction and dive, but he immediately realized the futility of his evasive maneuver.
   An F-86 had snuck up on him and fired a Sidewinder at close range.
   Even though Deng was almost supersonic, heading straight toward the ocean, he could not outrun it. Lacking any countermeasures— and with the images of Liko’s fate still burned in his mind — the rookie pilot did the only thing he could: he idled the engine and pulled on the ejection handle.
   The leg restraint system yanked his calves taut against the seat, and the rocket-propelled KK-2 seat shot up the guide rails. The world around him seemed to catch fire as the cockpit canopy vanished in the slipstream. At the same time, a retractable canopy dropped over Deng’s face and upper chest to protect him from the windblast.
   But it still took his breath away as the g-forces crushed him. The sky, the coast, and the ocean spun through his vision as he flew through the air. He vaguely realized it when his jet exploded. And then the sea rushed up to meet him.* * *
   MiG-17Fs from Zhangzhou and Wenzhou arrived just as the F-86s shot down the remaining fighters from Deng’s squadron. But Deng wasn’t alone. Hai Jing, his roommate at the academy, had splashed down a few hundred feet from him. He had not been as fortunate as Deng and had been severely burned as he’d ejected, his aircraft literally disintegrating around him in a fiery explosion.
   But by sheer superiority in numbers, thirty minutes later, the PLAAF had forced the Sabres back to Taiwan. Really, though, Deng knew, they’d fled because they were out of missiles, having expended them all in shooting down three waves of the PLAAF interceptors.
   Floating on the sea, Deng had seen it all as he comforted his friend. They drifted in the restless tides of the strait, waiting for a rescue helicopter or a boat. Hai Jing writhed in unimaginable pain, begging Deng to let him drown. Deng wondered if it would not have been better had he died quickly in the exploding aircraft.
   And Deng, having watched nearly his entire squadron shot out of the sky, imagined what it would be like to simply slip below the waves with his friends and meet his ancestors.
   But fate somehow allowed Lt. Deng Xiangsui to survive this day of days. As he floated above that watery graveyard, he swore to dedicate his life to exacting revenge for his fallen comrades.
   — 1 —NAVAL STATION NORFOLK, VIRGINIA, PRESENT DAY
   The clear morning skies and pleasant temperature contrasted sharply with the sorrowful mood of the crowd assembled on the pier. Many wiped tears from their cheeks. A few shouted farewells. Others simply looked on in stony silence, especially those who had spent countless holidays and family events missing their loved ones who were away on deployment.
   Above them loomed one of the greatest symbols of American sea power and might: USSHarry S. Truman (CVN 75). Often called the“Lone Warrior,” the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier was best known by her motto: The Buck Stops Here. Leading a full strike group, it would spend the next seven months patrolling the Arabian Sea and the Arabian Gulf as part of the US Navy’s Optimized Fleet Response Plan for its ten Nimitz-class carriers in service. OFRP consisted of individual carriers on seven-month deployments in a thirty-six-month cycle following in a heel-to-toe fashion to cover three hot spots around the world. The rotation strategy allowed enough time for required maintenance and upgrade cycles, as well as crew training. In the case ofTruman, it would relieve USSCarl Vinson (CVN 70), on station in the Arabian Sea.
   A Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser and two Arleigh Burke— class guided-missile destroyers would rendezvous withTruman later in the afternoon, along with two frigates. Three supply-class replenishment ships would provide logistic support for the forward presence on station, ready to respond on demand anywhere, anytime. And lurking in the depths below, a Virginia-class attack submarine would seek out and destroy enemy surface ships and hostile submarines.Truman, along with its escorts and supply ships formed the Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group, though many old hands still referred to it as a carrier battle group.
   The forward brow and the after brow— boarding ramps to civilians — were eased away from the carrier, and crew members dressed in their Summer Whites gathered on the port side of the ship to wave a final goodbye to families and friends on the pier.* * *
   Amid the crowd, Betty Lou Nelson, an energetic reporter from a local Norfolk station, looked for her next“victim.”
   Together with her cameraman, Stu Winters, Betty Lou worked the crowd, covering the aircraft carrier’s deployment for a news segment to be broadcast that evening.
   Wearing Ray-Ban aviators and a stars-and-stripes bandana, Stu followed Betty Lou as she went for the emotional jugular, interviewing several pregnant young mothers, some accompanied by small children. He knew viewers’ hearts would fill with empathy for the sacrifice these families were making. Sad mothers with even sadder and confused children wondering why Daddy was going away made for great human-interest pieces. If she was lucky, Betty Lou might find a father and his kids waving goodbye to their mother. The military, after all, was gender-neutral when it came to personnel deployment.
   Tears led to sobs for some family members when the brows finally cleared the carrier. Given events in the Middle East, many of the dependents expected the scheduled seven-month deployment would be extended to nine months or more. Others were all too aware they could be seeing their loved ones for the last time. Fourteen men and women, including pilots and aircrew, as well as sailors and marines, had been killed onTruman’s last deployment. Five when an E-2C Hawkeye suffered a ramp strike while landing in rough seas and fell backward into the drink, and nine when a helicopter had crashed during what should have been a routine training exercise. Death came even on peaceful deployments, and no one expected this to be a particularly peaceful deployment.
   The“Arab Winter,” the global rise of Islamic extremism in the aftermath of the “Arab Spring” protests across the Middle East, had resulted in more than a quarter of a million deaths and millions of refugees. And there was the continued threat from various global terrorist factions, from ISIS and al-Qaeda to Hezbollah and Hamas — along with the nations supporting them.
   From young sailors to grizzled chief petty officers, from fresh-faced ensigns to the rear admiral commanding the strike group, all expected to see action this deployment. And all were ready. The“work-ups” with Carrier Air Wing 7 (CVW-7) — meaning the integration of the air wing’s roughly 2,500 personnel and around seventy-five aircraft toTruman’s company of more than 3,200 sailors — had gone well. Air wings, which consisted of several fighter jet squadrons, fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft, were occasionally reassigned to different aircraft carriers based on the US Navy’s OFRP. Crew morale, and confidence were excellent and a strong sense of readiness permeated the ship’s combined company of almost six thousand men and women.
   Betty Lou continued to interview spectators as a small flotilla of tugboats began assisting the 1,092-foot-long carrier away from her berth. And almost on cue, a flock of seagulls winged skyward pastTruman’s island toward a stunning October morning. Stu turned the camera to capture the postcard-perfect scenery, which contrasted sharply with the mood of a crowd wondering what the next months would bring.* * *
   Less than five miles away, Claire Ramey, a veteran tower controller at the Norfolk International Airport, dropped her eyebrows after listening to the radio call of the incoming jetliner that Norfolk Approach had just handed over to her.
   “Mid-Atlantic Three-Eight-One-Eight, say again,” she said.
   A pause, followed by,“Ah, Norfolk Tower, Mid-Atlantic Three-Eight-One-Eight, ah, with you five miles, ah, long final for… ah, Runway Twenty-Three, information Foxtrot.”
   “Roger, Three-Eight-One-Eight,” Claire said, frowning at the heavy accent and broken English of the first officer and his failure to follow standard communications protocol.Twenty-Three? Did this guy miss the first class on radio basics?“Clear to land, Runwaytwo three. Winds light and variable. Altimeter Two-Niner-Niner-Five.”
   Claire was familiar with Flight 3818, a routine nonstop shuttle from La Guardia, New York, to Norfolk, Virginia. And she was particularly familiar with the regular crews of the Mid-Atlantic twin-engine regional jet. None of them had accents.
   Are they breaking in a new first officer?
   That could also explain the nonstandard radio calls.
   But still…
   Another long pause followed before the first officer read back her instructions.“Ah, yes, Norfolk Tower, ah, Mid-Atlantic Three-Eight-One-Eight is, ah, cleared to land, Runway Twenty-Three.”
   Claire shook her head.
   Two minutes later, as Mid-Atlantic 3818 finally appeared on the horizon, Phil Monaghan, a newly certified FAA air traffic controller standing in front of a radar screen a dozen feet away, turned to her. He looked younger than Claire’s own son, a senior at Virginia Tech, and was still learning the ropes.
   “Ma’am, approach says another Mid-Atlantic Three-Eight-One-Eight just checked in.”
   “Say again,” Claire said as she cleared a twin-engine Cessna for takeoff.
   Apparently uncertain, the rookie controller hesitated before repeating his statement.“Another Mid-Atlantic with the same tail number checked in with approach.”
   “That makes no sense,” Claire asserted. “It’s got to be a mistake. Double-check.”
   Phil again spoke with the busy approach controller and then turned to Claire.“Yep. Three-Eight-One-Eight just checked in with approach control. They have them on radar, confirmed.”
   Claire glanced at the approaching airliner.“How can someone be using the same tail number?”
   Phil remained silent.
   Becoming more concerned, Claire raised her binoculars, inhaled a fresh breath, and steadied her arms on the windowsill, fingering the focusing knob.
   She suddenly whipped her sunglasses off and blinked.“That’s… a Douglas DC-9 on final,” she stammered, catching Phil’s eye. “Not a Mid-Atlantic regional jet.”
   “But it has Mid-Atlantic’s colors,” Phil replied, peering through his own binoculars as Claire’s mind raced to find an explanation for the anomaly.
   “Maybe… maybe they’re introducing a new type of aircraft to this service segment,” the rookie offered.
   “No. We have advanced notice of changes in schedules or equipment, double backup protocol.” Feeling a tight knot in the pit of her stomach, Claire added more to herself, “Something’s wrong.”
   Before she could key her radio transmitter, the low-flying DC-9 retracted its landing gear and flaps and slowly rolled level with the horizon. Claire could tell the airliner had gone to full power by the wispy, dark smoke flowing from the twin engines mounted on the tail of the fuselage.
   “Mid-Atlantic Three-Eight-One-Eight,” Claire finally said. “State intentions.”
   Before the DC-9 could reply, a new airplane checked in on the tower frequency.
   “Ah, Norfolk tower,” said another deep voice with an accent.“Citation Three-Two-Three Quebec Bravo, we have information Foxtrot ah, landing Norfolk Airport, ah, Runway Twenty-Three… ah, ten miles west for landing tower.”
   What the hell is happening? Claire thought, glancing in the direction of the inbound aircraft.“Citation Three-Two-Three Quebec Bravo, extend downwind, and I’ll call your turn.”
   “Three, ah, Quebec, ah, Bravo, the, ah, the, low fuel.”
   Claire vacillated a moment and then asked,“Three Quebec Bravo, do you want to declare an emergency?”
   “Yes, ah, yes, turn to airport now and, ah, turn to airport now, land runway now.”
   Claire once more raised her binoculars and slowly scanned the sky for the troubled Citation business jet. Dumbfounded by what she discovered, Claire then turned to Phil, who was also lowering his binoculars.
   “That’s not a Citation,” he declared with the wide-eye stare of a deer caught in the headlights of a semi.
   “Nope,” she replied. “It’s a Curtiss C-46 transport inbound.”
   “What the hell is a freight dog doing here at this time of the day and pretending to be a Citation?”
   The only answer that occurred to the veteran controller brought a full sense of panic to the surface.
   “Oh, my God! This can’t be happening to us. No, no, no!”
   “What is it, what’s going on?” Phil asked.
   “They’re headed for the navy base…”
   “What are you talking about?”
   Claire’s mind raced back to earlier that morning, when she’d been in the break room reading theVirginian-Pilot.
   She remembered thatBush andTruman were at port, withTruman scheduled to depart today. Instead of replying, she grabbed for the phone and hit the speed dial for her superiors at the Federal Aviation Administration Air Traffic Control Systems Command Center in Herndon, Virginia.
   As she did so, the DC-9 banked sharply to the left, accelerating away from the airport very low to the ground. It flew over Interstate 64 just high enough to clear the tops of vehicles. A large number of startled motorists panicked and swerved off the busy highway, causing several collisions.* * *
   After slipping her moorings,Truman remained twenty-five yards from the pier, giving Betty Lou ample time to wrap up her final interview before motioning Stu to direct the camera at the carrier. But instead, he started moving toward one edge of the pier, away from the crowd.
   “Where are you going?” she asked as she heard the sound of jet engines over the horizon.
   “Navy flyover,” he said. “Need some separation from the carrier to get a good shot. Be right back.”
   Betty Lou had covered ship deployments before and nodded approvingly as Stu took off, reaching a spot several hundred feet fromTruman, near the north edge of the pier, before panning toward the southeastern skies. Navy jets zooming over the carrier would make a great finish to her piece in the evening news.
   But as she started to improvise a narrative, she noticed what appeared to be an airliner skimming the water. The low-flying commercial jet suddenly banked steeply toward the aircraft carrier.
   As the shocked crowd realized what was happening and began running down the pier, Betty Lou froze, the unthinkable becoming painfully obvious. Terrifying images of airliners plunging into the World Trade Center flashed through her mind.
   Chaos on a grand scale broke out as people stampeded, stumbling over one another in an effort to avoid the impending carnage. Betty Lou considered joining them as she noticed Stu at the edge of the large dock capturing the surreal moment.* * *
   Traveling in excess of 340 miles per hour, and still accelerating low to the water, the DC-9 almost overshot the turn towardTruman.
   The force of an eighty-five-thousand-pound aircraft traveling at nearly 360 miles per hour struck the aircraft carrier’s island just above the large “75” painted on its side. Thousands of pounds of explosives and fuel ignited on impact, creating a fireball that consumed the island. The massive antenna array toppled from the top into the sea on the starboard side of the ship.
   The detonation engulfed the steel superstructure overlooking the flight deck, including the admiral’s bridge, the captain’s bridge, the navigation bridge, the chart room, flight-deck control, and primary flight control.
   A solid wall of flaming jet fuel and molten debris swept across the flight deck. It incinerated hundreds of sailors before leaping over the water toward the pier like a wave of red-hot shrapnel, cascading into the crowd still trying to get away from the carrier.* * *
   Stu Winters watched in horror, yet managed to keep his footing, capturing the attack in high definition. Acrid smoke burned his eyes and lungs as he panned the camera looking for Betty Lou. But everywhere he focused, he saw only death and destruction.
   His instincts told him to keep filming, but his conscience took over as images of the wounded and dead filled his viewfinder.
   Turning off the camera, he went to help those he could.* * *
   Twenty-seven seconds after the airliner struck the ship, an automatic distress signal from the damaged carrier reached the National Military Command Center at the Pentagon. Less than three minutes later, the news reached the White House. At the same time, NS Norfolk and nearby military installations went to their highest security posture, including the skeleton crew aboard USSGeorge H. W. Bush (CVN 77), also in Norfolk and with a clear view of the destruction ofTruman.
   Commander Jeff Weathers, the carrier’s executive officer (XO), had witnessed the attack from the captain’s bridge. He had immediately ordered the ship to general quarters.
   Bush was the second Nimitz-class carrier to receive a modernized island, smaller and also set farther aft for improved flight-deck operations and reduced radar signature. It also meant that all of the ship’s defensive systems, including two Raytheon Phalanx close-in weapon systems were at his fingertips.
   Weathers scanned the horizon with a pair of field binoculars as his weapons officer came running inside the bridge, responding to the general quarters alarm. Ensign Deena Kohl rushed to her station, shoulder-length hair tucked inside her cap and lips compressed, settling behind her console. Other crew members followed behind her.
   In addition to the Phalanx system, Weathers had two MK 29 missile launchers loaded with Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles, plus two RIM-116 Rolling Airframe Missile launchers— both designed for threats that were further out. The Phalanx was the last line of automated weapons defense against anti-ship missiles and attacking aircraft.
   “Turn on the starboard CWIS,” he ordered, pronouncing it “sea-whiz.”
   Kohl did a double take on him, narrowing her brown eyes.“But — but, sir, we’re at port, and it’ll track and shoot at anything that—”
   “I know where we are, Ensign Kohl! This is not a drill! Do it!”
   “Aye, sir!”
   Weathers had already been patched in to the Norfolk Airport tower and also Norfolk Approach a minute after the DC-9 went rogue, and he had been informed about a C-46 cargo plane also inbound toward the port. Approach was tracking the latter on their radar as it made a wide circle to reach the base from the east. The last report still showed it around five miles out at a hundred feet pushing 140 knots.
   Weathers glared at the column of smoke billowing into the air from the burningTruman. He would be damned ifBush would suffer the same fate.
   Not on my watch.
   Thirty seconds later the radar officer looked up from his screen.“Incoming bandit. Range three point four miles. Altitude one-one-zero. Heading three-one-zero. Speed one-four-three knots. Sir, it’s turning toward us!”
   Weathers panned the binoculars across the sky, his pulse racing.
   “Range two point nine miles. Altitude one-two-zero feet. Heading two-seven-zero. Speed one-six-one knots. It’s accelerating… on a direct collision course.”
   Where are you, mother—?
   “There!” he shouted, spotting it around a bend in the Elizabeth River. Snapping his head at Kohl, he said, “Engage.”
   She worked the keyboard, and the starboard 20 mm Vulcan Gatling cannon swung into action. Mounted on a swivel base beneath its independent radar inside a barrel-shaped housing, it started tracking the incoming threat.
   “Range two point three miles. Altitude one-two-zero feet. Heading two-seven-zero. Speed one-six-niner knots.”
   Weathers stared at the Phalanx forward of the island making final adjustments as the C-46 crossed inside the gun system’s effective range.
   A sudden rumble signaled the six-barreled cannon firing 20 mm shells at the rate of seventy-five rounds per second, sending a swarm of armor-piercing tungsten penetrator rounds directly at the C-46.
   Precisely four seconds after the CWIS began firing, the C-46, still two miles away, burst into a massive fireball that was nothing short of spectacular, reaching almost three hundred feet high as burning debris fell into the river like a meteor shower. Two seconds later, the sonic boom of the explosion shook the carrier.
   “Jesus!” Kohl said, jerking back in her chair. “What was in that thing?”
   “Hell if I know, Ensign Kohl,” Weathers replied, staring at the dispersing smoke and the sizzling debris littering the waters. “Hell if I know.”
   The Phalanx, detecting the threat gone, returned to tracking mode, searching for other targets within its range.
   “Shut it down,” Weathers ordered, just as his CO, accompanied by a half dozen officers, stormed the bridge.
   Ignoring them, Weathers added,“And call to get some boats out there ASAP. I want that entire crash site cordoned off. We’re going to have to secure everything until NCIS, ATF, NTSB, the Coast Guard, and every other agency in the alphabet gets here to investigate.”* * *
   Following the frantic report from the Norfolk control tower, the Air Traffic Control command center located near Washington Dulles International Airport became an angry beehive of activity. Orders had been received to ground all airliners, general aviation aircraft, and military aircraft not directly tasked with a mission related to the attacks. A combat air patrol of four F-16 fighters had already set up over Washington, DC, prepared to shoot down any other aircraft that appeared to be a threat to the White House or other federal buildings.
   Nearly simultaneously with word of the attacks reaching the Pentagon and the White House, notification reached the North American Aerospace Defense Command and US Northern Command located on Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado. The personnel assigned to Northern Command’s Situational Awareness Center went on full alert.
   The four-star general in charge of USNORTHCOM also served as Commander, North American Aerospace Defense Command, or NORAD, charged with preparing for threats against America, be it natural disasters or terrorism. It scrambled a multitude of jet fighters from various military installations scattered across the United States. In addition to the combat air patrol over Washington, DC, other fighter interceptors circled New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, Houston, and a dozen other major cities. It was the largest deployment of military aircraft above the United States since the Cold War, exceeding even the response on 9/11.
   The planes were a mix of F-15E Strike Eagles, F-16 Falcons, and F-22 Raptors from the 1st Fighter Wing at Langley AFB in Virginia, the 53d Wing at Tyndall AFB in Florida, the 57th Wing at Nellis AFB in Nevada, and the 3d Wing at Elmendorf AFB in Alaska. In addition, Marine Corps and Navy F/A-18E Super Hornets complemented the Air Force assets. Within the hour, the Pacific and Atlantic coastlines, the Gulf of Mexico, and the border with Canada had aircraft patrolling them, with US Air Force KC-10 and KC-135 refueling aircraft, along with Marine Corps KC-130J Super Hercules aerial tankers, flying ongoing refueling operations to keep the birds in the air.
   Additional airborne assets, including E-3B Sentry AWACS aircraft from the 552d Air Control Wing at Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, patrolled critical infrastructure and high-value military installations.
   More than two dozen F-16 fighters were dispatched to shadow international and domestic flights approaching all major US airports. Planes en route to US airports would be downed if they deviated from their filed flight plans. And international flights that could be turned back to their departure points were instructed to do so or to land at the closest airport large enough for their aircraft.
   Over the next two hours, hundreds of airliners and corporate jets, plus thousands of civilian aircraft, vanished from the radar as they landed at the closest suitable airports. For the first time since 9/11, the skies over America were empty of all but military aircraft.
   — 2 —THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   An edgy, quiet frustration filled the crowded Situation Room. The faces of senior civilian and military officials were uniformly grim. The combination of fluorescent lighting and the glare from the flat-panel televisions streaming the harrowing aftermath from Naval Station Norfolk in ultra-high definition gave them a sickly hue that only emphasized the dour mood of the room. It had been less than twelve hours since the attack and the number of casualties had already topped one thousand.
   President Cord Macklin sat quietly at the head of the thirty-foot-long conference table looking every bit the quietly aging fighter jock. He wore a fitted white dress shirt and a Hart Schaffner Marx two-piece suit, a longtime favorite among American presidents. His steely blue eyes studied his audience.
   He lifted his gaze briefly to scan the video feeds, then took a deep breath. Even with the sound muted, the images from multiple networks were hard to watch.
   Slowly he put on his reading glasses to look at a note handed to him by Director of National Intelligence Hartwell Prost, who sat to his immediate right.
   The president looked up from the note, gave him a half nod, and surveyed the room again. Next to Prost sat Secretary of State Brad Austin, Secretary of Defense Peter Adair, his vice president, the secretary of Homeland Security, and the directors of the FBI and the CIA. The Joint Chiefs of Staff monopolized the left side of the room, forming a unified wall of crisp uniforms, ribbons, and poker faces.
   Though he seethed with anger and felt nearly overwhelmed with grief for the crew ofTruman and their families and friends, outwardly Macklin kept his emotions in check, appearing businesslike and in charge.
   A former US Air Force fighter pilot during the Vietnam War, Macklin had been to hell and back during his years of military service— some of them alongside a handful of the characters at this table. He had given and suffered violence while flying F-105 Thunderchiefs in the skies of Southeast Asia — and had the scars to prove it, earned a lifetime ago, along with a Silver Star and a Purple Heart.
   And now someone had brought that violence to American soil at a level unseen since September 11.
   Staring at the piece of paper again, Macklin read,“More than six hundred civilian casualties, two-thirds of them women and children, plus at least four hundred military personnel. And then we have the wounded… What are we up to now, Hart?”
   “Three thousand two hundred and fifty-three at the last count, Mr. President,” Prost replied, reading from a tablet computer.
   “Three thousand two hundred and fifty-three,” Macklin repeated. “God Almighty.”
   Removing his glasses and folding them, he used them as a pointing device, which he directed at the Pentagon brass.“Before we get tohow we allowed some bastards with obsolete planes to kill at least a thousand people and put a $6.2 billion aircraft carrier out of commission, I’d like to hear what we have learned about who is responsible.”
   Directing the glasses at his DNI, Macklin added,“That’d be your cue, Hart.”
   Prost took a breath to consider his words. He had had a long career in the CIA, joining it after graduating with honors from Harvard Law, a decision that had upset his parents, who had expected him to take over their family-owned investment business. But Prost had heard another call and went on to rise through the ranks at Langley to become its director of operations, before retiring from the agency and becoming Macklin’s national security adviser, until the president tapped him to fill the DNI chair. In his current role, Prost was responsible for the effective integration of all foreign, military, and domestic intelligence in defense of the United States of America. As such, the directors of the FBI, the CIA, as well as the Defense Intelligence Agency, answered to him.
   Prost looked every way the intelligence type, average height and build, salt-and-pepper hair and brown eyes, and an easy-to-forget face. And pale, perhaps from spending too much time in basement rooms such as this one.
   The DNI tapped his tablet computer. The image on the seventy-inch flat screen on the far wall switched from the CNN feed showing images of body bags lined up on the pier to photos of mangled and charred sections of fuselage.
   “Our civilian and military agencies have been collaborating nonstop to find a lead on the aircraft and pilots,” he began. “We were able to pull serial numbers off three pieces of the C-46. Most of the DC-9 vaporized or melted on impact.”
   Prost paused to let that sink in, then added,“Using the serial numbers, we were able to trace the plane back to a shell company that had acquired it from a bankrupt air-cargo service. From there, it will just be a matter of time until we uncover the real buyer.
   “In addition, our investigation has identified the airfield from which these flights originated: La Aurora Airport in Guatemala. A team of agents will be there within the hour. State already cleared it.” Prost looked at Secretary of State Brad Austin, who gave him a nod.
   “That said,” the DNI continued, “the consensus from my colleagues at this table is that the US needs an immediate show of force to deter potential follow-on attacks or copycats.
   “We have satellite imagery that has been confirmed by Special Forces on the ground that there is an ISIS training and logistics camp in Yemen that provides a good opportunity. It is isolated enough that the risk of hitting civilian structures is low. The greatest risk is to immediate family who may be living there with the terrorists. However, we have seen no evidence of a school, nor is there an actual mosque in the compound.”
   Prost once again paused. He looked around the room, apparently to make sure there was no disagreement.
   Macklin motioned him to continue.
   “I believe hitting this target serves both locally to destroy a terrorist element and internationally by demonstrating that we will be decisive in our response to attacks upon us. We have a Virginia-class submarine,Missouri, in position and, with your permission, it’ll launch a Tomahawk against it.”
   Macklin looked about the room and received nods.
   “Fine,” the president finally said. “Get it done. Today. And make sure it happens when we have eyes on the target. I want it on YouTube.”
   “Yes, sir.”
   Macklin then said to no one in particular in a very calm voice,“It seems like a given that our carriers should be protected at all times. In fact, I’m baffled that there wasn’t any protection in place forTruman.”
   Before anyone could answer, Macklin pointed the reading glasses at the ceiling and added,“Hell, I know there are two guys with SAMs up on my damn roof twenty-four seven. But we have nothing standing by to protect our ships while at port?”
   Macklin knew that asking such a question would immediately turn the meeting into an old-fashioned exercise in accountability, but he needed to get to the bottom of this mess.
   The silence he received prompted him to direct the reading glasses at General“Lucky” Les Chalmers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — and also one of the best friends of Cadet “Cordy” Macklin back at the Air Force Academy.
   “Les, if I understand the scenario correctly, a portable, shoulder-fired surface-to-air missile could have savedTruman.”
   Chalmers was built like a heavyweight boxer and had the prizefighter face to go along with it, hard and chiseled, even a slightly crooked nose. Many wondered how in the world this bear of a man actually fit inside one of those cramped fighter jet cockpits. The truth was he didn’t. Chalmers flew KC-135 refueling tankers for most of his career, but he had a gift for combat strategy that eventually had landed him a Pentagon assignment.
   The general looked the part of a four-star officer in his starched uniform and ribbons crowned by a full head of close-cropped gray hair and a stoic face that reflected the sentiment in the room. He shifted in his black leather swivel chair as his narrowed eyes briefly looked away from Macklin’s armor-piercing gaze.
   Chalmers stared into the distance, apparently considering his response, and when he finally spoke, he did so in a cautious tone but in his typical baritone voice.
   “Theoretically, Mr. President, that’s true.”
   The chief did indeed look uncomfortable and very much“unlucky,” but then again, Macklin couldn’t remember the last time the good general had been on the receiving end of an ass-chewing.
   “In my opinion,” Chalmers added, “we would have had a better than fifty-fifty chance of bringing the plane down. But the bigger problem is firing authority. Even if we had shoulder-launched SAMs in place, there wasn’t enough time to identify the problem, go through the proper chain of command, and give the order to shoot it down, especially when it looked like a Mid-Atlantic airliner.”
   “Les, I hear you, but on the other hand, you must agree that it was a good thing thatBush’s XO decided not to follow the chain of command.”
   Chalmers nodded.“This time, yes, Mr. President, but it could also have gone very bad had that gun system locked on, say, a passing helo or patrol boat or commercial jet on final approach to Norfolk International. There are very valid reasons why we keep those weapon systems disabled at port.”
   The general paused, and Macklin decided to give him the space to choose his next words carefully.
   “Mr. President,” he finally added after several seconds of uncomfortable silence. “We do train our officers to make split-second decisions when facing life-or-death situations, and in the case of Commander Weathers, his decision to break protocol prevented a second disaster. But as you know, our military operates based on rules; it has to, or people die. Obviously, those rules failed us in the case ofTruman, so we are reviewing them. But to your earlier point, until we develop a better system for defending our ships at port, we are placing crews armed with SAMs on all of them. We will not make the same mistake twice.”
   Macklin nodded, deciding to stop the inquisition for now. Down the road, no doubt there would be congressional hearings on this disaster. And those hearings would likely result in some bloodletting— meaning the early retirement of some of those present here. But the president needed this team today, working the problem of today, without worrying about tomorrow. And to that end, he turned his attention to Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Denny Blevins, who sat next to the general.
   “Denny, how long willTruman be out of commission, realistically?”
   Leaning forward in his chair and resting his forearms on the table, fingers crossed, Blevins said,“I honestly won’t have a firm answer until we complete the damage assessment. But from what I’ve seen and heard so far, I’d guess around nine months, possibly a year. Obliterating the island is tantamount to destroying the ship’s brain, taking out most ofTruman’s command structure as well as its radar capabilities. Having said that, however, the island is a stand-alone structure that can be swapped, but we’re concerned about damage to the carrier structure belowdecks. I’ll have something more concrete for you in a week.”
   “But either way, losingTruman puts a hell of a strain on our Optimized Fleet Response Plan, Mr. President,” General Chalmers chimed in. “We rotate our carriers every seven months as part of the OFRP thirty-six-month cycle. WithTruman out of the picture, it screws up the rotations, so we’ll have to be creative, think beyond the horizon.”
   “The general’s right,” said Blevins. “On paper, we currently have a total fleet of ten Nimitz-class aircraft carriers. WithTruman out of commission andBush undergoing upgrades for another month, it leaves us with eight. Our oldest,Nimitz, is at Naval Station Kitsap on a ten-month maintenance cycle while our second oldest,Eisenhower, is in dry dock at the Norfolk Naval Ship yard undergoing hull repairs and engine upgrades right next toWashington, which is undergoing similar repairs.”
   Although no one said it, everyone, starting with Macklin, was damn glad that the C-46 pilot choseBush instead of one of those other carriers, since there would have been no crew aboard to mount a defense.
   Blevins added,“And that leaves us with five operational carriers, Mr. President.Vinson is in the Arabian Sea,Lincoln in the Mediterranean,Stennis is currently at port in Singapore, andReagan is at port in San Diego, scheduled to go out in a week to relieveRoosevelt, which is due to return from its seven-month deployment in the Sea of Japan.”
   “Denny, what aboutFord?” Macklin asked, referring to USSGerald R. Ford (CVN 78), the first of a new generation of“supercarriers” coming out of Newport News Shipyards.
   Blevins said,“It’s finalizing sea trials this week, sir. Should be back at its dock in four days to start the process of getting it ready for its first deployment in three months.”
   Macklin exhaled, glad that the supercarrier had been away from port during the attack.
   “And behind it isKennedy, scheduled for launch in a year and deployment in three. It’s already starting to look like a carrier.”
   Macklin did the math and the math sucked. They were stuck with five carriers for the next few months.
   Blevins continued.“The general and I were conferring with the defense secretary right before this meeting, and we’re considering temporarily suspending the OFRP rotations and simply leaving a carrier strike group or two on station in the Mideast and rotate the ship’s crew and air wings. Now, we can’t do thatindefinitely because sooner or later we need to get those carriers back to port for maintenance and upgrades, but we can extend their deployments for a few more months to buy us some time. And we could even dispatch a couple of Expeditionary Strike Groups to the region. That’ll get the bastards’ attention in a hurry. We’ll have a complete plan for your review in the next twenty-four hours.”
   Macklin liked the idea of taking advantage of the much nimbler Marine Expeditionary Strike Groups, which included an amphibious assault ship that was basically a 39,400-ton aircraft carrier— just over a third the size of a Nimitz-class carrier — with 2,200 marines and a team of Navy SEALs. It was escorted by a cruiser, a destroyer, a Zumwalt-class guided-missile destroyer, and a Virginia-class attack submarine.
   “All right,” Macklin said. “But let’s keep the pressure on and see if we can do better on the timing of getting these ships ready to go.”
   “Yes, sir,” Chalmers and Blevins said in unison.
   Shifting his gaze between them and the defense secretary, Macklin considered his next request for a moment, then said,“I would also like your recommendations on strike options after the Tomahawk launch today. I don’t intend to take my foot off their necks for the foreseeable future.”
   Chalmers and Blevins exchanged a glance before the latter said,“We’ll discuss it with the defense secretary and our staffs and get you a strike package shortly, sir.”
   Satisfied, the president turned his attention to his secretary of state, the only man in the room who probably had more combat flying experience than Macklin. And it wasn’t just the number of hours or the fact that, like Macklin, Austin had also been shot down. Macklin didn’t know any other American pilot who had flown a stolen MiG-17 into Vietnam disguised as a Russian pilot for the sole purpose of wreaking havoc behind enemy lines. It was the stuff of legends— though few actually knew the story, and even fewer knew of his harrowing escape. Not only was Austin’s MiG shot down, but he had been unable to eject because some intelligence type had had the ejection seat mechanism disabled to cover their tracks in case he ever went down. But the spooks hadnot counted on the hotshot pilot landing the burning plane in a rice paddy and walking away.
   “Brad, I’d like to hear your thoughts on our situation.”
   Bradley Carlyle Austin had graduated from Annapolis with a bachelor’s in aeronautical engineering before accepting a commission in the Marine Corps to fly F-4 Phantoms. He had done it against the wishes of his father, Vice Admiral Carlyle Austin, also an Annapolis alumnus and three-star flag officer who had expected him to join the fleet. But like all members ofMacklin’s cabinet, Austin was an independent thinker determined to follow his calling. Rumor had it that just to drive the point home to his unrelenting father, who had tormented Austin during his senior year at the academy, the young jarhead had shown up at the next family Christmas dinner wearing his new Marine dress blue uniform.
   While most people leaned forward when addressing the president, Austin calmly sat back, elbows on his chair’s armrests, fingers interlaced as if he were praying, as he considered his response. Unlike General Chalmers or Admiral Blevins, the man certainly didn’t appear at all uncomfortable or tense today, probably something to do with staring death in the face so many times and walking away.
   Still thin but muscular and only a few pounds heavier than the last time he’d strapped into the cockpit of a Phantom, Austin had aged well. Though a full head of silver hair and more than a handful of wrinkles showed he was on the wrong side of sixty.
   “Mr. President,” he finally said. “The delegates to the UN General Assembly are gathering for their annual meeting. With your permission, I intend to address them and clearly — and quite candidly — explain our position. The members, along with the Security Council, need to take immediate action to sanction the known host nations of terrorism.”
   Macklin polished his glasses with his tie, leaned back, and sighed.“What do you think the odds are that the UN will take action?”
   Austin chuckled, then said,“Zero to none. Most of those bastards can barely keep from cheering every time we get hit.”
   Macklin shared Austin’s exasperation with the imaginary nature of any sort of cooperative atmosphere at the UN.
   The secretary continued.“We still have to go through the usual and predictably… gutless motions, though. If we act unilaterally, without giving the UN and their handwringers a chance to argue the issue forty ways to Bombay, the whining and crying will be worse than a pissed-off Saigon hooker.”
   Macklin held back a grin, feeling a touch of nostalgia at the mention of his old stomping grounds. Back in the day, when he had flown Thunderchiefs and Austin Phantoms, Saigon had been called Saigon.
   Not Ho-Chi-Fucking-Minh City, he thought before asking,“And that translates into how long?”
   “I’d say the longest those delegates can stand to sit with their thumbs up their asses talking in circles is about forty-eight hours, seventy-two on the outside.”
   This time Macklin did grin, then said,“That sounds about right. Go ahead and schedule a visit to the assembly, and please let me know when you’re going to speak. Don’t want to miss that show.”
   “You’ll be the first to know, sir,” Austin said.
   An aide entered the room then and leaned in to speak quietly to Austin, who listened for a moment, then turned to Macklin and tapped his large aviator watch.
   “Brad?”
   “We have a call with President Jiechi in ten, Mr. President, then it’s the Russian president at twenty-two hundred, followed by the British prime minister thirty minutes later and a few other heads of state until midnight. The world leaders want to tell you how sorry they are and extend the customary offer of assistance.”
   Macklin frowned, hating that dog-and-pony show, especially when he had so much on his plate.“Do I really have to?”
   Austin shrugged.“I didn’t write the protocols, nor did I run for office, sir. Each world leader will be expecting the big kahuna at this end of the line.”
   “All right, all right,” Macklin said, standing, which prompted everyone else in the room to also stand. “All of you have your marching orders. Get to work, and we’ll pick this up first thing in the morning.”
   Standing by the door, Keith Okimoto, the head of the presidential Secret Service detail, spoke into his lapel microphone,“Big Mac’s on the move.” A compact, muscular martial-arts champion, the Japanese American’s tight features and dark eyes were usually enough to make people keep their distance. Macklin once said he thought that the man looked as if he’d just stepped out of a samurai movie set, sword in hand, ready for action, which was precisely how he ran the detail. Rumor had it that Okimoto had been the one who’d given Macklin the “Big Mac” code name.
   Prost caught up to them halfway to the elevators.
   “Mr. President, there’s one other thing I’d like to discuss.”
   “Shoot,” Macklin said, stopping, as did Austin, Okimoto, and three other Secret Service agents surrounding them. The agents took a discreet step back, out of earshot. “But make it quick. Don’t want to keep our… favorite trading partner waiting.”
   Prost hesitated briefly before glancing at Austin and then saying,“Maybe this is not a good time.”
   He sensed the DNI’s concern. “Why don’t you join me at Camp David tomorrow afternoon? Can it wait until then? I’m addressing the nation tomorrow evening from the lodge.”
   “It can wait, sir,” Prost finally said. “See you tomorrow.”* * *
   Back in in the Oval Office, a Chinese interpreter with a top-secret clearance joined Macklin and Austin, who represented part of the core of the White House National Security Council (NSC), the principal forum used by presidents when discussing national security and foreign policy.
   Missing at Macklin’s request so they could actually get some work done before the morning meeting were DNI Prost, Defense Secretary Adair, the secretary of energy, his vice president, and the White House Chief of Staff. The latter was handling congressional leaders, running blocking and tackling so Macklin could work the problem without interruptions from Capitol Hill.
   Aides to Prost, Austin, and Adair also stepped in, able to respond at a nod from the president for more information, based on what the Chinese president might say.
   The president sat in a high-backed leather chair and pressed the speaker button on the phone next to him.
   “Morning, Xi,” Macklin said, aware of the time difference.
   “Good evening, Mac,” the new leader of the People’s Republic of China reciprocated in the British accent from his days at Oxford. “I wanted to express my condolences and offer assistance.”
   Macklin raised his brows at the warmth and concern in the Chinese leader’s voice.
   Nothing like having a major disaster or terrorist strike for world leaders to engage in a lovefest.
   Although protocol required him to be here all night long listening to empty offers, nothing prevented him from taking the opportunity to make helpful suggestions to hiscompadres across the pond.“I appreciate the… offer, Xi. My greatest need from you, though, would be to put more pressure on North Korea to end its missile tests and stop creating so much drama in the region. That would go a long way toward helping us focus on catching the bastards who carried out this attack.”
   He paused to let the Chinese president respond and smiled at the silence that followed. He glanced at Austin, who didn’t bother to hold back a grin, giving his commander in chief a thumbs-up.
   Macklin wondered how many people were listening to this conversation on the Chinese side. He actually liked President Jiechi, a man who appeared genuinely interested in shifting the cooperation needle between their two nations in the right direction. Although he also understood the challenges the new leader faced while trying to drive some much-needed change in old-school Beijing, he couldn’t pass up the chance to get China to apply some pressure on the rogue nation-state.
   “I… hear you, Mac,” Xi replied. “I will… look into it.”
   Yeah, Macklin thought.You do that, pal.
   “Thank you, Xi. I look forward to good news.”
   The conversation came to an end, and as the Chinese interpreter stepped out and one of Austin’s aides summoned the Russian translator to get ready for the call to Moscow, Macklin looked at his secretary of state and said, “Need a minute, Brad.”
   “Of course, Mr. President,” Austin replied, ushering everyone out before closing the door behind him.
   Walking over to the windows next to his desk, Macklin stared at the manicured lawn under the floodlights, his hands deep in his pockets as he thought of his predecessors standing on this very spot. From JFK during the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1963 to Jimmy Carter during the Iranian hostage crisis to George W. Bush in the aftermath of September 11, each had stood here, knowing he was in the defining moment of his presidency. He thought of the crew ofTruman and the civilians who had died and been wounded. Then his thoughts turned to the crew ofMissouri, who would strike the first blow in retribution. What was that old saying?Mess with a bull, you get the horns.
   — 3 —USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), INDIAN OCEAN
   Swift, silent, and quite deadly, the Virginia-class submarine represented the culmination of thirty-five million labor hours of computer-aided design and development to create a worthy replacement for the aging fleet of Los Angeles— class submarines. Its innovations included stealthy pump-jet propulsion technology, improved sonar systems, and photonic masts instead of a traditional hull-penetrating periscope. The latter meant that the control room no longer had to be located at the top of the operations compartment under the sail, slaved to the periscope. Instead, it occupied the level below, at the widest beam of the ship, translating into a larger, open layout that improved information flow. It also meant that the officer of the deck would no longer need to hang on to a periscope, gazing through a maze of mirrors and prisms. Rather, the photonics mast housed an array of high-resolution, night-vision, and infrared cameras that fed selected large screens in the control room.
   AsMissouri cruised at a depth of sixty feet, so its tactical communications mast could break the surface, Commander Frank Kelly waited patiently behind the two electronics technicians as their communications system downloaded the day’s broadcast from US Naval Forces Central Command (NAVCENT) in Bahrain. NAVCENT was the US Navy element of the US Central Command (USCENTCOM) with an area of responsibility that included the Red Sea, the Arabian Gulf, the Arabian Sea, and the eastern end of the Indian Ocean whereMissouri currently operated.
   Rolling his eyes at the pathetically slow speed of his encrypted satellite connection, Kelly leaned over and whispered to his executive officer, Lieutenant Commander Roberto Giannotti,“Go figure, Bobby. Two billion dollars’ worth of state-of-the-art submarine and it takes longer than it did to get my mail off AOL on a dial-up modem.”
   Kelly looked every bit the submariner. Short and wiry, he seemed built for enclosed spaces. Standing next to him, his XO, a former linebacker at Annapolis, looked like a giant.
   Glancing over at his CO, Giannotti whispered,“AOL? My grandfather uses AOL. Maybe I should just call you Gramps from now on.”
   “Go fuck yourself, Bobby.”
   “Copy that, sir.”
   The crew sometimes referred to the captain and XO as Abbott and Costello, given their senses of humor and an excellent performance of“Who’s on First?” at a ship-wide talent show.
   Both men were single, one by divorce, the other by choice.
   Kelly sighed, standing in the middle of the control room illuminated by wall-to-wall multifunction flat screens. The compartment swarmed with the coordinated activity of pilots, navigators, electronics technicians, weapons experts, and even sonar technicians. Unlike prior submarines, the Virginia-class didn’t have a separate sonar room.
   Petty Officer Second Class Marshon Chappelle, the boat’s most experienced sonar technician, abruptly looked up from his large green console.
   “Conn, Sonar! New Contact! Bearing two-zero-niner!”
   Kelly snapped his head toward the sonar stations along the port side, opposite the starboard combat control consoles.Missouri’s six-month mission was to guard the waters of the Indian Ocean from the edge of the Arabian Sea to the coast of Malaysia in a constant loop. At the moment, it cruised a course southwest of Sri Lanka, some five hundred miles southeast of theVinson battle group operating in the Arabian Sea, near the coast of Mumbai, India. And that all meant that the Mighty Mo, a nickname the submarine shared with the legendary World War II Iowa-class battleship, should be all alone. No contacts except for the occasional humpback whale.
   “Russian or Chinese?” Kelly asked.
   Chappelle adjusted his headphones, narrowing his eyes in concentration— and under the curious stare of the four junior sonar technicians under his command. The native from Harlem, New York, finally replied, “Ah, neither, sir. It’s USS1990, and it wants its dial-up system back.”
   Several sailors broke into laughter, including Giannotti.
   “All right. Knock it off,” Kelly said, shaking his head and turning back to the radio station. It was an old joke but one that served as a constant reminder of the worldwide communications bandwidth challenge the US Navy hadn’t yet figured out how to solve.Missouri—as well as all Virginia-class boats — had been designed with two high-data-rate satellite communication masts — one as backup. However, in order to use either one, it required Kelly to make prior arrangements with the Navy to task a satellite to focus a “spot beam” on its coordinates. Assuch, it was reserved for large data dumps or videos. For day-to-day ops, the commander had to rely on the quarter-century-old technology trickling down operational updates from NAVCENT.
   “Chappy, I think you missed your calling,” Giannotti said, chuckling.
   Although Kelly would never openly admit it, Petty Officer Chappelle was precisely where he needed to be. In his eighteen years of submarine service, the commander had yet to see anyone who could match the kid’s ear and instincts for sonar work.
   One of the electronics technicians finally presented Kelly with a printout, which he read, then passed to Giannotti.
   The XO frowned after scanning it.“Boss, I’m all for taking out terrorist camps, but why us? My sister is the XO onChamplain, and they’re a lot closer,” he said, referring to USSLake Champlain (CG 57), a Ticonderoga-class missile cruiser escortingVinson.“And my cousin is aboardTexas,” he added, referring to the Virginia-class submarine also escorting the carrier group. “Either can easily take the shot.”
   “Tell me, Bobby, is there a vessel in the US Navy where youdon’t have a relative?” he asked, though his own nephew, the son of his older brother, worked the engine room ofNorth Dakota, another Virginia-class boat on station in Singapore escorting the John C. Stennis Carrier Strike Group.
   The XO shrugged.“What can I say, boss? Big Italian family. And for what it’s worth, my uncle Gino, my mother’s brother, handles aircraft maintenance for one of the fighter squadrons onVinson. Why don’t they launch an air strike instead of just burning fuel flying those damn CAPs,” he said, referring to the constant combat air patrol missions flown by carrier jets to protect the battle group.
   Kelly shrugged.“Theirs not to make reply, Bobby. Theirs not to reason why.”
   Giannotti sighed before whispering,“Except that now the entire civilized world will know where we are.”
   “I know that. And we’re going deep and hauling ass toward the coast of Malaysia the moment it breaks the surface.” Dropping his voice a couple of decibels, Kelly added, “Besides, you want to get your own command in the near future, right?
   Giannotti nodded.
   “Well, this is the kind of stuff CO’s gotta handle without batting an eye, so, get rolling.”
   It was no secret that Kelly had been grooming Giannotti for the job.
   “Aye, sir,” he said, and walked over toMissouri’s pilot and copilot.
   Until the Virginia class, all submarines were controlled by a combination of a helmsman, who steered the submarine with the rudder and managed the bow planes, and the planesman or outboard, who controlled the boat’s angle with the stern planes. They were supervised by the diving officer, as well as by the chief of the watch, who handled the submarine’s buoyancy. The Virginia class’s new generation of fly-by-wire controls replaced all four positions with just a pilot and a copilot, who took orders fromthe officer of the deck, who at the moment was Cmdr. Kelly. The dramatic change had been viewed as a bit of heresy by the submariner community, even by Kelly when he first transitioned from a Los Angeles — class sub. But after his third deployment in the Mighty Mo, traditional control rooms and periscopes now seemed like something belonging in a museum.
   “Set depth to one-two-zero feet,” Kelly ordered. “Bearing zero-niner-zero. Ahead slow.”
   Giannotti relayed the commands to the pilot and copilot. The former, a seaman in charge of the rudder and stern planes, read back,“Setting course zero-niner-zero, aye.”
   “Setting depth one-two-zero, aye,” read back the copilot, a petty officer third class controlling the bow planes.
   Next to them sat the reactor operator, who in a Virginia-class ship also handled the duties of the traditional throttleman. A petty officer second class, the RO read back,“Ahead slow, aye.”
   While the pilots and RO did their thing, hands on their respective video game— like joystick controls, Giannotti stepped over to the combat control consoles and handed the firing order to the senior-most weapons officer, who validated it and began to key in the prescribed coordinates.
   Kelly watched the well-drilled process in silence as the crew confirmed and executed the order to fire a single BGM-109 Tomahawk missile.
   “Depth one-two-zero,” the copilot reported.
   “Bearing zero-niner-zero,” the pilot said.
   “Speed zero-four knots,” the RO confirmed.
   Missouri, as well as all Block II Virginia— class boats, carried twelve Vertical Launching System (VLS) tubes. Eight housed BGM-109 Tomahawk missiles with an operational range of 1,550 miles and four carried MK 48 torpedoes to complement the four traditional torpedo tubes mounted on the bow.
   The instant the weapons officer confirmed the order and the coordinates, which were read back to Giannotti and then Kelly, the commander, gave the order to fire.
   A few keystrokes later, the weapons officer said,“Missile away.”
   All heads turned toward the large screens above the combat center consoles, one of which showed a view of the bow as captured by one of the high-definition cameras on the photonics mast.* * *
   Below the surface, a single hatch swung open, and a burst of bubbles from the discharge of pressurized cold gas marked the ejection of the capsule housing the Tomahawk.
   The buoyant capsule rose fast, breaking the surface and completely exiting the water before a solid rocket booster ignited for a few seconds, thrusting the 2,900-pound missile into cruise flight.
   The Tomahawk’s turbofan engine took over as the wings unfolded, accelerating to its cruise speed of 550 miles per hour, as the onboard guidance systems used GPS navigation to steer it to its preordained coordinates.* * *
   Approximately 1,100 miles west, Mohamed al-Asmari, a Yemeni national who had been imprisoned at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp but then was released and repatriated to his home country, woke for Fajr, the early-morning prayer. In addition to him, three other former detainees from Guantanamo, along with another twenty-two jihadists, lived in this camp, where they had daily instruction in the building of improvised explosive devices. Two of the men had grown up in the United Kingdom and were teaching English to their fellow mujahideen as a part of a plan to eventually send them to Europe or America as Syrian refugees.
   The camp had been built mostly from old cargo containers trucked in from the port of Hodeidah. From a distance, they didn’t look like much, but a closer inspection showed window air conditioners mounted in holes that had been cut with a torch in the side of the containers. A portable generator powered them, as well as the lights, several laptops, and the roof-mounted satellite dish.
   Al-Asmari went outside to empty his bladder. He enjoyed the mornings, before the heat of the day became unbearable. Finished, he turned to go back inside to pray.* * *
   Just a few feet above the horizon, the Tomahawk dashed over the desert sands, its GPS guidance system now assisted by its terrain contour matching (TERCOM) system.
   As it approached the target, the system’s Digital Scene Matching Area Correlation kicked in, providing terminal guidance while being tracked by an Enhanced Imaging Systems satellite operated by the National Reconnaissance Office. And circling the camp at three thousand feet, a General Atomics MQ-1 Predator focused its cameras to capture the event in high definition.* * *
   Inside his metallic home, al-Asmari unrolled his prayer mat and knelt, facing Mecca. He bowed forward and touched his head to the mat just as he heard the faint sound of a jet engine.
   Before he could sit up, the Tomahawk dropped right in the middle of the terrorist enclave. Its one-thousand-pound high-explosive warhead detonated with enough force to shred his metal container as well as the surrounding ones, turning them into red-hot shrapnel that propagated radially at the speed of sound, ripping through the rest of the camp in a nine-hundred-foot radius.
   — 4 —CAMP DAVID, MARYLAND
   Arriving at the isolated retreat Friday afternoon, DNI Hartwell Prost, feeling almost uncomfortable in L.L. Bean khakis and a collared button-down, met up with President Cord Macklin, casually dressed in a pair of jeans, a black shirt, and black cowboy boots. They went for a walk along the trout stream.
   “Big Mac’s by the river,” reported Keith Okimoto, dressed in a dark sweater, jeans, and hiking boots. Other agents dressed in full camo gear were no doubt also present but unseen.
   The Secret Service detail kept a respectful distance as they reached a pair of Adirondack chairs a dozen feet from the babbling waters and sat down. Prost had a large, brown-paper shopping bag from which he began pulling bags branded with McDonald’s Golden Arches. The president’s code name hadn’t originated just with his last name. Actual Big Macs were the president’s favorite meal… when the first lady wasn’t around.
   “Damn, Hart, how’d you pull this off? Closest one’s six miles away in Thurmont,” he said, digging into one of the bags.
   “Best if you don’t know, sir. Plausible deniability.”
   Macklin laughed.“Man, the fries are even still hot.”
   Prost shrugged.“Being DNI has its benefits, sir.”
   A few Baltimore orioles flushed from the cover of a nearby shade tree, catching the president’s eye as he unwrapped the Big Mac and took a hearty bite. Prost did the same.
   “Pretty pathetic when you think about it,” the president said after swallowing and taking a sip of his chocolate shake. “The most powerful man on the planet sneaking around eating burgers for fear of his health nut of a wife. But the hell with it. Love these things.”
   “Could be worse, sir.”
   “How’s that?”
   “You could be sneaking around doing other things… like some of your predecessors.”
   Macklin almost choked, then laughed again.
   After eating and having the Secret Service detail remove all evidence, the president reached into his pocket and pulled out two cigars, offering one to Prost.“The Russian ambassador claims he gets them from the same factory that made Castro’s.”
   “So, this is how the other half lives,” Prost replied, bringing it under his nose and inhaling. “Thank you, Mac.”
   At the president’s insistence, outside of the fishbowl of the White House, Prost and other members of his senior staff took a more casual approach with the president. Macklin said, trimming the end of his cigar with an old pocketknife, “The doctor says I should give these up. Says they aren’t good for me.”Macklin smiled and handed the knife to Prost, who made quick work of trimming his own cigar.
   “Things in life that we really enjoy rarely are,” Prost replied. “Sex, drugs, and rock ’n’ roll.”
   “Well, at least I still get to listen to the Stones and even Meat Loaf, so two out of three ain’t bad,” the president replied, and Prost chuckled.
   “So, what’s the BDA on the Yemen strike?” the president asked, referring to the bomb-damage assessment.
   “Video from the Predator indicated we hit the camp dead center. Satellite imagery shows nothing but debris. There’s no evidence of survivors. It will be released on YouTube shortly.”
   “Good.”
   “And looks like Blevins delivered on his promise,” Prost said, referring to the carrier deployment plan.
   “He did. And he even included a strike package.”
   “That’s right. Multiple targets in Iran, Syria, and Lebanon. We’re also continuing to build the target list.”
   “Already included in my address tonight. The networks have been notified. We’ll strike selected targets as I speak and in the hours following. You’re welcome to watch it live at the lodge.”
   Prost frowned.“Thanks, sir, but it’s a long drive back to DC, and I have to be back for the breakfast meeting. I’ll catch it on the radio on the way home. I’m sure you’ll do great.”
   “Why don’t you spend the night, then? I’ll set you up.”
   “Thanks, sir, but you have enough on your plate to worry about—”
   “Nonsense,” Macklin insisted. “It’s no trouble at all, and besides, that way you’ll be well rested. I need you at the top of your game tomorrow.”
   “All right, Mac,” Prost finally said. “That would be great.”
   The president lit his cigar and began puffing away, and Prost borrowed his lighter.
   Macklin took a long pull on his cigar and blew three smoke rings in quick succession.
   “About the strikes, sir… you don’t want to wait until Brad addresses the UN?”
   “Hell no,” Macklin said flatly. “When terrorists attack us, we’re going to counterattack as rapidly as possible, UN-sanctioned or not.”
   Leaning forward in his chair and talking around the cigar, Macklin spoke plainly.“You realize, of course, that no matter how many of the assholes we take out with our missile and drone strikes, we’re still not making any headway. And it’s killing us, both as a country and as a party. The American people didn’t sign up for a ‘forever war.’ They want a victory and to be done with it, which was what we accomplished in World War II. But we’ve never done it since. Korea was a stalemate; Vietnam was a pathetic loss. I was there. We got our asses kicked. And Iraq and Afghanistan are royal clusterfucks. We made life in Iraq worse for most of the people living there and allowed tribal and religious conflicts that had been held in check for decades to flare right up.
   “Bottom line is that our strategy isn’t working. Sure, we’ve spent decades in Iraq and Afghanistan, but we spent — when you really think about it — over half a century in Europe and Japan. And we’re still there. Sure, it’s not a shooting war, but our presence in those countries has been a deterrent that we simply don’t have in the Middle East. They don’t want us there, and we can’t make them let us stay there. Sure, they’ll cry for help when shit hits the fan and we’ll come running, but we just aren’t there to stabilize and influence things the way we are in other countries. We’re just slapping Band-Aids on things and hoping the locals can keep them on long enough to stop the bleeding. But it isn’t working and really has never worked.”
   Prost sat quietly, contemplating the president’s candid evaluation. “Hell, it’s not even just al-Qaeda and ISIS. Half the Saudi royal family is up to their necks in supporting terrorism, the Iranians are backing Hezbollah and Hamas, and the Palestinian Authority is too busy trying to figure out how to steal the aid we give them rather than finding ways to actually make peace with Israel. Shit, if the Israelis weren’t in the middle of it all, giving the Arabs all a common point to focus their hatred on, the tribes and factions would have torn each other apart by now.”
   Prost raised his eyebrows and glanced over at the nearby Secret Service agents.
   The president turned to face his senior agent.“Hey, Oki,” he said, “give us more space for a few minutes.”
   “Yes, sir,” Okimoto replied before speaking into his mic. “Big Mac’s requesting a little elbow room. Back out a hundred feet.” Like true samurais, the agents soon blended into the wooded surroundings.
   “Look, Hart,” he added. “My dad fought in World War Two. Pacific Theater. He was on a ship that got hit by a kamikaze. When the troops hit the islands, the Japanese fought to the last man. On Iwo Jima, they had to use flamethrowers to burn them out of the caves they’d holed up in. To defeatthem, it took a level of violence and cruelty that our generation can’t even start to conceive yet. The Battle of Okinawa resulted in almost 78,000 Japanese dead — over 100,000 if you count the natives they’d conscripted. Can you imagine if any one battle in the modern age resulted in that number of dead? But that’s what it took.
   “Defeating terrorism worldwide has to go beyond Tomahawks and bombing compounds. My dad had to chase the bastards all over the Pacific islands. We have to stop being so damn surgical and figure out how to cut the head off the snake and kill the body so two new ones don’t grow.”
   Macklin paused to smoke and stare at the stream.
   “I think there might be a way,” Prost said, leaning forward. “Which is what I wanted to discuss.”
   The cigar hanging from the edge of his mouth, the president regarded him for a moment before saying,“All right. You have my undivided attention.”
   “Less than an hour ago, we received confirmation that the DC-9 airliner had been at La Aurora Airport in Guatemala City for the past four or five weeks. Ditto for the C-46.
   “My people in Langley dubbed the DC-9 a phantom flyer, an illusory threat. A State Department official and scores of pilots, five of them Americans, said the planes had been there for a month. A local maintenance manager confirmed his company installed extra fuel tanks while the planes were there.”
   The president stared at the burning end of his cigar.“Do you know anything about the pilots, where they came from?”
   “No names yet, but one of the mechanics said they had Syrian passports and regularly prayed together. He said they were obviously Muslims.
   “The pilots departed at night on what was reported to be a medical emergency flight.” Prost paused.
   “And?” asked Macklin.
   “There are two more planes, one at a second hangar at La Aurora, and another at a nearby private airstrip. Reports are that both have been fitted with extra fuel tanks.”
   “Motherfu—”
   “The planes are included in the strike package,” Prost said. “But there’s more. We’ve tracked ownership of the planes to an imports-exports company out of Panama that’s part of a Venezuelan oil consortium. After that, the money trail gets a little fuzzy but good enough for my analysts to follow the scent to a shipping company named Sino-Eastern Group, or SEG. And guess which real-estate mogul used to be its major shareholder?”
   Macklin shrugged.“Donald Trump?”
   Prost grinned.“Funny, but no. It was Saeed Shayhidi.”
   Macklin lowered his cigar, and his brow furrowed in confusion.“What?”
   “The planes tie back to a company that was created and used as a front by Shayhidi, the same terrorist mastermind we killed last year.”
   “So, you’re saying he’s back from the dead?”
   Prost shook his head.“Not unless he walks on water.”
   “So, whatare you saying?”
   “Well, I think it’s what you just said. It’s a hydra effect.”
   “Cut off a head and two more appear?”
   “Something like that.” Prost took a drag and exhaled skyward. “After Shayhidi’s death, we dismantled his worldwide operation, froze assets, confiscated bank accounts, you name it. But only so far as we could reach. There were other holdings in the UK, Switzerland, Luxembourg, and France, where we left it to those governments to act.
   “And they did. But physical assets are harder to deal with than money. The real estate and the companies he used as covers had to be sold.
   “And as far as we can tell, whoever acquired SEG also backed the attack onTruman and is retrofitting two more planes.”
   “And who’s that?”
   “Don’t know yet, but will soon.”
   “So, whatdo you know, Hart?”
   “Well, for starters, that the NSA is currently decrypting a flurry of communications it intercepted on the dark web between the companies I’ve just mentioned. Like I said, we’ll know something concrete very soon.”
   “So, let me see if I get this. We took down a major terrorist who used real companies as a front. Then we let the Brits or Swiss or whomever, dispose of those companies, and what happened is that they were simplybought by someone who has now attacked us? Is that accurate.”
   Prost nodded.“Apparently.”
   “JesusH. Christ.” Macklin stood up, waving his cigar, and asked angrily, “Didn’t anyone vet the buyers?”
   Prost shrugged.“It was out of our hands.”
   “I ampersonally going to rip some new assholes on my next trip to Europe. In fact, I think I should schedule that trip as soon as possible.”
   “I understand and I’d buy tickets to see that, but in the meantime, we have bigger issues.
   “I think it’s a matter of days before we zero in on who was behind this attack, but my gut tells me that when we do, there’s going to be a very small window of opportunity to act, and that brings me to my request.”
   “Which is?”
   “Pretty much a blank check. Presidential authority to pull together a fast-response team, including SEALs, Special Ops, and our best people from the CIA and the DIA. Whatever it takes.
   “We need to act very fast on whatever intelligence we manage to collect. The bastards who hit us are very nimble and well-funded. We need to fight them with a similar team that has access to the necessary resources without having to jump through hoops to get authorization to move.”
   “That’s a big ask, Hart. You’re asking me to cut a lot of people out of what would normally take a meeting of the NSC, the Joint Chiefs, half the cabinet, and the Senate Intelligence Committee to decide.”
   Prost took another drag and just stared at his president.
   “On the other hand,” Macklin continued, “I don’t want to be like Clinton after 9/11, regretting that he didn’t act when he could have to cut the head off the snake months or even years before the attacks took place. I’ve got enough regrets already because we didn’t uncover the plan toattackTruman. We must locate and capture or kill the bastards responsible— and fast. Still, what you’re asking is…”
   “Is in addition to, Mac. Not instead of. You’re already at the helm of the big ship, and it’s an awesome ship with lots of guns, but it’s still a big fucking ship. I’m asking that we add a patrol boat, fast, nimble, but very, very deadly.”
   “And let you be at its helm?”
   “With your guidance, of course.”
   “One mistake and Congress will roast me, you know that.”
   Prost nodded.“Well, we either be proactive or start hoping there is someone there at the next time to avert disaster.”
   “Like Commander Weathers,” Macklin said.
   “Yep. The man took a huge chance ignoring the rules to prevent a second disaster. Someone else might have waited for permission to fire and, well…”
   “I get your point.”
   “Mac, a good offense is the best defense, and by approving this team I’m requesting — a well-organized group to get in front of this thing — you’ll be ensuring that we’re not going to be counting on a Hail Mary play to save us the next time.”
   Macklin slowly leaned back, hands behind his head, chewing on the cigar hanging from the corner of his mouth as he stared at the sky. If this went sideways, it would make Desert One, Iran-Contra, Whitewater, and even Benghazi— as well as every other military and political snafu in history — pale in comparison.
   Before Macklin could respond, Okimoto emerged from the woods and approached them.“You’re needed in the lodge, sir. Showtime.”* * *
   Ten minutes before the president’s prime-time address to the nation, Prost followed Macklin into the Aspen Lodge, where the camera crew was ready to begin.
   First Lady Maria Eden-Macklin walked up to them. She was a striking woman, as tall as Macklin, with a swan-like neck, penetrating brown eyes, and honey-colored skin that made her look ten years his junior, even though they were the same age. She wore a pair of black jeans, boots, and a cream-colored cotton turtleneck to ward off the evening chill.
   “Thanks for bringing him back, Hart,” she said, crinkling her nose as she hugged the president. “And you need a mint, darling.”
   “I need a lot of things, honey,” Macklin replied, before turning to Prost and saying, “All right, Hart. Get your team going. And pray it works.”
   “Thank you, sir,” he said before retreating with impressive fluidity, blending with the swarm of TV studio people and aides.
   “What team?” the first lady asked.
   “Darling, trust me. You don’t want to know,” Macklin said as he took her hand and approached a small podium set on one side of the main room, in front of the large windows overlooking the pool and the woods.
   The Aspen Lodge certainly had its appeal and quite the history, dating back to FDR and Truman, who would entertain friends and guests there. President Eisenhower had loved to spend his evenings there playing Scrabble with the first lady, while JFK and LBJ used it often as an informal place to meet with advisers during the turbulent sixties. Nixon had even entertained celebrities such as Bob Hope, and Jimmy Carter had hosted sessions between Israeli prime minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian president Anwar Sadat in 1978.
   Reagan spent many hours alone working in the old brown recliner, which still stood in the room next to the producer working the teleprompter. George H. W. Bush had hosted the Gorbachevs in 1990. President Clinton had met on the pool terrace with Yasser Arafat in 2000, and George W. Bush discussed world policy with Putin on the green sofas next to the podium.
   Hell, Macklin thought,Obama even had a water gun fight with Sasha by the pool before meeting with G8 leaders.
   The first lady took her place just behind and to his left as the lights came up, and he focused on the teleprompter, the glass panels across the front of the podium reflecting his speech. The producer gave him his cue.
   “Good evening,” he said, feeling relaxed and confident. “My fellow Americans, yesterday’s callous attack on the crew of the aircraft carrierHarry S. Truman, and their families and friends on the pier, showed us once again the fear many in the world have of America’s freedom and democracy. But it is our freedom and democracy that have made America the strongest nation on the planet, a nation that has welcomed millions to our shores, where they have built better lives. We will not respond to this attack by cowering. We will not respond by weakening our determination to work toward a more free and democratic world. This attack only reinforces our determination to defeat those who would see us live in fear by their heinous acts.”
   He paused, allowing the tension to leave his voice.“Rest assured those responsible and their sponsors will be the ones to live in fear, to live with the knowledge that our nation will not rest until we have discovered their identities and eliminated their ability to bring violence to our shores. We will ensure that they and others like them understand that the cost of attacking the United States of America is their own destruction.
   “To the crew members of USSTruman, to their families and friends, Maria and I share your sense of loss. Along with our fellow Americans, we send you our prayers and heartfelt condolences.”
   Macklin again paused, his face impassive.“As your president and commander in chief, I want to make my intentions perfectly clear to those who carry out and to those who support the carrying out of terrorism against the United States and its allies: Every country harboring or supporting terrorist organizations will be held responsible for their actions. You will pay a stiff penalty for allowing those who seek to attack the United States to operate within your borders; you will pay a stiffer penalty if you support them. There will be no exceptions. I want to be absolutely clear on this point. Youwill clean your house of these vermin.”
   Macklin again stopped for a few moments.“While the United States has responded militarily in the past to attacks, we have long sought to use both the carrot and the stick. We have pursued the promotion of freedom and democratic governments. Our nation has lost many brave men and women in these efforts. But, too often, we have been rewarded only with more extremism and discord.
   “For our efforts to destroy the Taliban and aid a free Afghani government, that government and our Pakistani allies sheltered Osama bin Laden. For our efforts to free Iraq from the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein, we were rewarded with hostilities between Sunnis and Shiites in that country, and the rise of ISIS. We have sent billions in aid, both financially and militarily, to these countries. And what have we gotten in return? More violence visited upon our country.”
   Compelling himself to speak slowly, the president continued in a measured voice.“Some members of the media, and some lawmakers on Capitol Hill, claim that America is the real problem. They say that we are arrogant; that our wealth, our freedom, and our capitalism are the issues. Those sages see America’s hubris, American hegemony, America the superpower, imposing its will unilaterally.”
   Macklin allowed time for the message to be absorbed.“They caution the United States to extend an olive branch and negotiate. Well, a negotiation requires two reasonable and rational parties — parties that both want an end to the violence and destruction. But our enemies are neither reasonable nor rational. Our enemies want to see the complete destruction of the United States. That they evenimagine that possibility is a sign of their true insanity.”
   His voice grew colder.“History has taught us over and over that appeasement will only embolden terrorism. Appeasement sends a message of weakness, of lack of courage, of an unwillingness to be ‘all in.’
   “I’m putting our enemies on notice, as well as some of our allies. There will be no more diplomatic efforts, no more conciliatory gestures. There will be only overwhelming responses designed to ensure that those responsible never have the opportunity to harm us again.”
   Macklin paused again.“And when we cannot find the terrorists themselves, we will find their backers, be they nations or individuals. We will find from where their money comes and we will treat those sponsor countries or individuals as terrorists themselves. I say to those countries, some who are supposedly allies, ifyou have been smiling to our faces and stabbing us in the back, those days are over. The American people are not foolish, nor will we be taken for fools. I tell you again, clean your houses… or we will clean them for you.”
   He waited a few seconds, letting that sink in in the minds of his audience.“We didn’t try to make friends with Adolf Hitler or Hirohito in World War Two. We didn’t try to appease the Soviets during the Cold War. And we sure as hell are not going to befriend terrorists. We’re going to crush them.”
   Macklin smiled briefly.“America is already on the offense. We’re taking the fight to our enemies as I speak.”
   The president allowed his statement to linger.“I will not blink. I will not be intimidated, and I will not be dissuaded from my responsibility to protect you, my fellow citizens.”
   Then leaning forward, he said with passion,“We will prevail. Good night and God bless America.”
   As the red light went off and the bright TV lights dimmed, the president stepped away from the podium and hugged his wife.
   Embracing her, President Macklin’s thoughts turned to the conversation he’d had with his director of national intelligence and the men and women who would soon be in harm’s way because of his orders. Sending men and women to war was, without a doubt, the most difficult decision any president had to make. Some had made it for the wrong reasons. He knew that he had not.
   — 5 —USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), ARABIAN SEA
   Sitting in the dark at four in the morning, Lieutenant Commander Juan“Ricky” Ricardo suppressed a yawn as he fidgeted in the cockpit of his single-seater F/A-18E. A dim sickle moon cast a soft glow over the crowded, noisy flight deck of the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier, his home for the past six and a half months. Although officially called the “Super Hornet” because of the fighter jet’s evolutionary enhancements over the original Hornet, unofficially the F/A-18E and the “F” two-seater variant were often referred to as the “Rhino” in an effort to aid safe flight ops and avoid confusion in radio calls.
   The massive ship gained speed, and its captain gave the order to turn into the strong wind. Twenty-foot swells crashed against the hull in explosions of white foam and mist that matched the rage Ricardo felt about the tragic attack onTruman. And, as a result,Vinson had been extended on station indefinitely, meaning Ricardo would once again miss his fiancée’s birthday, not to mention the one-year anniversary of their engagement.
   He closed his eyes. His last video call with Jessie had not gone well. She wanted to set a date for their wedding and he couldn’t commit to one.
   Ricardo sighed, remembering the JFK quote in his father’s study back in San Diego that had started him down this long and winding road: Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country.
   And how’s that been working out for you?
   The naval aviator tried to put Jessie out of his mind for now as he watched yellow-shirted aircraft directors orchestrating the flow of armed planes to the catapults.
   With her aircraft parked only inches apart,Vinson’s pilots and flight-deck crews in their varying colored jerseys worked in close harmony, putting on a ballet of high-tech weaponry. Red jerseys for ordnancemen, repair parties, and firefighters. Blue for aircraft handlers. Yellow for catapult officers and flight-deck directors. Brown for plane captains. Purple for anyone handling fueling of jets between missions. And finally, white for LSOs — landing safety officers — safety personnel, and sighting teams, also known as “Snoopy” or “Big Eyes” teams.
   Swirls of steam rose from the two bow catapults, mixing with the helmeted men and women shifting about the deck and bringing an ethereal feel to the early-morning launch.
   The flight leader of two Super Hornet strike fighters from the“World Famous Golden Dragons” Strike Fighter Squadron 192, (VFA-192), Ricardo had earned his place in the cockpit and squadron through hard work and proving himself a superior pilot. He had been an instructor pilot in the F/A-18E fleet replacement squadron before joining Carrier Air Wing 2 (CVW-2).
   The carrier housed four strike fighter squadrons from CVW-2. Along with the Dragons’ twelve Super Hornets, it had twelve more belonging to the “Bounty Hunters” (VFA-2) and another dozen from the “Kestrels” (VFA-137), plus the Hornets from the “Blue Blasters” (VFA-34). At a price tag of almost one hundred million dollars each, plus all of the other support aircraft and helicopters, the aircraft of CVW-2 cost as much as the carrier itself.
   Ricardo’s wingman in the two-plane section was Lieutenant Amanda “Diamond” Diamante. The daughter of an Iowa farmer, she had attended Annapolis and had become a first-generation aircraft carrier fighter pilot.
   Being minorities in an otherwise Caucasian, male-dominated navy fighter squadron, she and Ricardo had formed a close bond. He had been one of her instructors when she’d attended Super Hornet transition training and knew she had the unique skills and natural instincts of an aerial warrior. Ricardo was on his third deployment withVinson, and in addition to being proficient with the F/A-18E, he had undergone the transition training for the F-35C Lightning, the navy’s brand-new generation of stealth multi-role fighters. Amanda was on her second deployment and had also gone through the Lightning transition training at NAS Patuxent River, Maryland.
   Ricardo sighed. Compared to the Lightning, his F/A-18E was starting to look dated, but the navy had been slow in getting the F-35C deployed across all carrier operations. And that meant that Ricardo, as well as Amanda and other F-35C-certified pilots had to remain flying Super Hornets for the time being.
   He took a deep breath and cleared his mind, focusing on his predawn mission to hit a target in Iran. With the ability to switch instantly from ground attack to air combat, the F/A-18E could conduct unescorted strikes against heavily defended targets.
   The list of targets for CVW-2 were spread across Iran and multiple locations in Afghanistan, along its border with Pakistan— all part of President Macklin’s strategy to erase terrorist enclaves from the region.
   And the sooner we do that, the sooner I can get my ass home to Jessie.
   When the plane captain gave them the signal, Ricardo and Amanda taxied to the starboard and port bow catapults respectively, also known as Cat I and Cat II. He grinned under his oxygen mask, recalling the message the flight-deck crew had written on the tips of his bombs with black markers: FROM NS NORFOLK WITH LOVE.
   His nosewheel launch bar securely in the catapult shuttle and all systems appearing to be“in the green,” Ricardo received the signal to increase power from the yellow-jersey flight director. He moved the two throttles to military setting, waited the requisite five seconds to check his flight controls for continuity, scanned the engine instruments and warning lights a final time, took a deep breath of cool oxygen, and flicked on the master switch for his external lights. That was the signal to the catapult officer that Ricardo and his jet were ready to be blasted into the dark void off the bow.
   Ricardo then shifted his eyes to the catwalk, where the cat officer started his routine, looking left, then right.
   Seconds later, when the catapult fired, Ricardo staged the blowers— meaning he selected afterburner on both engines. The punishing g-forces pinned him to his ejection seat as the Super Hornet accelerated from zero to 150 knots, or 172 miles per hour, in two seconds. He deselected burner shortly after the end of the catapult stroke, when he was confident he had a positive rate of climb above the black ocean, and then he raised his gear.* * *
   Amanda“Diamond” Diamante’s plane waited in Cat II. She had already gone over her checklist and made several mental notes, focusing on every detail of the carefully planned, low-level, night-attack flight, wanting this mission to be flawless.
   She rocketed down the catapult track ten seconds after Ricardo. With no discernible horizon during the launch sequence, she kept her eyes focused on the flight instruments until she had a positive rate of climb. Following the departure route, she soon rendezvoused with her flight leader, settling at a relaxed one hundred yards abeam.
   As her adrenaline began to ebb, the naval aviator took a moment to take in the spectacular star-filled sky.
   The sight made her think of her many nights staring at a similar sky while growing up in Iowa. Her parents and brothers thought she was insane for considering anything other than tending their two hundred acres of corn in the northern part of the state. And for a while, Amanda had given the farming thing a good try, until the day she caught a ride in the neighbor’s Thrush 510G, a two-seater crop duster. The retired navy pilot, Commander Kirk Ripley, had flown the venerable A-6 Intruder in the skies over Vietnam, and he had taken the seventeen-year-old on an unforgettable “aerial application” trip over a cornfield that had forever changed her life.
   Amanda had been taken aback by Ripley’s skills, easing over acre after acre of farmland with grace. When she had asked how he could be so damn calm skimming oceans of corn at dizzying speed with only a few feet of clearance, Ripley had said that when he sprayed the corn, it didn’t shoot back. Later, though, he admitted that throughout his career in aviation — military and civilian — it was the fear of dying that always kept him alert. And that’s when Amanda had first heard the famous quote from General George S. Patton: Courage is fear holding on a minute longer.
   And the rest is history, she thought, recalling the secret flight lessons that followed, and then her even more secretive application to Annapolis to attend—
   “Three hundred miles from shore, Diamond. Radio silence,”Ricardo said.
   Amanda snapped out of her reverie and clicked her mic twice to acknowledge before blinking away the past and mentally running though the plan of attack another half dozen times.* * *
   The immense flight deck of USSCarl Vinson looked nearly empty after the last two F/A-18E Super Hornet strike fighters from the“Bounty Hunters” were launched. Two spare F/A-18C Hornets from the “Blue Blasters” were armed and idling on deck in “Alert Five” status. If any of the fighters had a problem and turned back, the Alert Five pilots had briefed to take off as a team.
   High above the nuclear-powered flattop, a division of four Hornets flew combat air patrol. Between the carrier and the most likely direction of enemy attack, two sections of two F/A-18Es flew barrier combat air patrol (BARCAP). Four Boeing KC-135R Stratotankers from the 22nd Air Refueling Wing garrisoned at McConnell Air Force Base, Kansas, and stationed at al-Udeid Air Base, Qatar, circled nearby to supply the thirsty fighters to their targets and on their return route.
   TheVinson’s strike group turned to steam downwind twenty-three miles. The V-2 Division Arresting Gear crew would prepare to recover the first event of the strike force. At the bow of the ship, the V-2 Division Catapult crews got ready for the next launch cycle.
   In the Mediterranean, the Abraham Lincoln Carrier Strike Group would concentrate on targets in Syria and Jordan. Other US warships and attack submarines in the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden, and the Mediterranean Sea were launching Tomahawks at targets in the Sudan, Syria, Yemen, and Iran. And on top of that, the Air Force had its own set of assets, primarily B-1B Lancer and B-2 Spirit bombers, plus F-22 Raptors and A-10 Warthogs, unleashing their own wave of violence on insurgents along the border of Syria and Iraq.
   The message from President Macklin had been crystal clear: he would keep turning up the heat until he’d made it far too costly for host nations to sponsor terrorist groups.
   — 6 —LISBON PORTELA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, PORTUGAL
   It began as a rumor along the Chinese coastal provinces, a war story about a young aviator who went up against staggering odds to defend the homeland. Slowly the tale spread across the countryside, and as it did, as all tales do, it evolved, developing into the gripping account of a fisherman’s son who became a fighter pilot. Freshly out of flight training, he’d engaged and shot down multiple enemy jets threatening his homeland, meanwhile dodging their deadly missiles.
   By the time word reached Beijing, the number of downed F-86 Sabres had quadrupled, plus he had survived for days adrift in the Taiwan Strait when his plane had finally gone down, but only after eliminating the threat. In fact, one story claimed that his engine had been on fire when he’d killed the final F-86 with his last rounds.
   It was certainly the stuff of legends.
   And at the time, Chairman Mao Zedong had been in dire need of such a story to overcome the embarrassing loss the world remembered as the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis. Deng Xiangsui became a national hero, and his rise through the ranks began.
   General Deng Xiangsui, vice chairman of the People’s Republic of China’s Central Military Commission and supreme commander of the People’s Liberation Army, stood on the tarmac below his Citation X business jet parked at the private terminal of the Lisbon airport. He recalled the hero’s welcome he’d received at Fuzhou, as well as the emissaries from Beijing arriving to the PLAAF coastal air base.
   Presented with the highest military decorations by Chairman Mao himself, Deng went on to become the poster child of the People’s Liberation Army and served on various commissions, rising through its ranks and earning the respect and loyalty of those serving under him. And today, on the eve of his seventy-ninth birthday, the aging and highly esteemed military commander was regarded as the last living link to those glorious revolutionary days that gave birth to the PRC.
   At least overtly, he thought, aware of the forces at work to put him out to pasture and give way to a new generation of leaders— a covert movement started by no other than Xi Jiechi, recently elected president by the National People’s Congress.
   Deng admitted to himself that the day would soon arrive when he would have to step aside.
   But not yet, he thought. Not when he had yet to fulfill the promise made while drifting in that stretch of water a lifetime ago. But decades later, Taiwan and the various affiliated islands stolen by the rebels following that civil war still lay beyond Beijing’s grasp.
   Not for long, he thought as he watched an Embraer Legacy 650 business jet taxiing up to his Citation. Not while he still controlled the military, as well as the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China, the group of nine men who made all decisions of national significance. Modern times or not, China was still controlled by its communist party, which the PSC ruled with an iron grip, and that included the appointment of members to the National People’s Congress, which in turn elected the president.
   Of all the people to disappoint him, Deng never expected it to be the son of Liko Jiechi, the pilot burned alive by the same bastards who continued to defy Beijing’s rule.
   After all, it was Deng who had become like a father to Xi, tending to the boy’s every need in the wake of that terrible day.
   It was Deng who had sent him to the finest schools in England, before clearing his way into China’s provincial politics and guiding him through the turbulent waters.
   It was Deng who had helped Xi Jiechi become governor in Fujian Province, then party secretary in neighboring Zhejiang Province before he’d joined the Politburo Standing Committee six years ago.
   And it was Deng who had influenced the PSC to steer the National People’s Congress into appointing Jiechi as vice president two years ago and elected him to the position of China’s “Paramount Leader” six months ago.
   Paramount, my ass, Deng thought as the Embraer came to a complete stop and its twin turbines spooled down. Now his protégé had started making his own moves to forge new alliances with the United States, the very nation who had sent — and continued to send — its carrier strike groups to the Taiwan Strait to protect the renegade island. And in doing so, Jiechi had spat on his father’s memory.
   The last communiqué from Deng’s spies inside the PSC told him that the young president continued to work his way through the politburo in hopes of retiring the men loyal to Deng and replacing them with his own allies.
   Perhaps I taught him too well.
   But perhaps I still have something left to teach him.
   In spite of their differences, he still loved the man he considered his only son. And that reminded him of another one of his father’s proverbs:It is easier to govern a country than a son.
   Deng sighed.
   The Embraer’s door finally swung down and Prince Omar Al Saud stepped out, followed by his aides.
   Well educated, well mannered, and always dressed in Western clothes— no keffiyeh orthawbs, the traditional Arab robes— Al Saud and his lieutenants could easily pass for junior executives of a multinational corporation. And it was this unorthodox approach to terrorism, circumventing the traditional values to which so many of his colleagues desperately clung, that had first attracted Deng’s attention during a gathering in Dubai two years before.
   Unlike other extremists, Al Saud had discarded the notion of roaming the strife-worn crossroads of the Middle East with an entourage of dirty, uneducated extortionists and murderers bent on forcing others to their ways.
   To the contrary, Al Saud had carefully crafted the persona of a nonreligious, no-nonsense business executive with a charming smile. His slim nose, high cheekbones, chiseled chin, and neatly trimmed beard would sometimes cause him to be mistaken for the actor so famous for his pirate movies. In stark contrast to fundamentalist black-hooded terrorists hanging from the backs of pickup trucks, Al Saud almost always had beautiful women surrounding him, like the two ladies deplaning after his men. He often flew to Paris or London for lavish shopping sprees and nights of clubbing more often expected from teen rock stars than businessmen. The tabloids always covered the elaborate excursions, often suggesting that one of the women was soon to be his fiancée, despite Al Saud’s perfect portrayal of the playboy billionaire.
   Always impeccably attired, he maintained penthouses in places like London, Paris, New York, and Sydney.
   And right here in lovely Portugal, Deng thought as the Saudi approached him smiling his billion-dollar smile.
   When he wasn’t enriching Harrods in London and Cartier in Paris, Al Saud dined with business titans and selective royalty, played golf with heads of state and presidents, and entertained Hollywood’s elite on one of his impressive yachts. He had sponsored private economic summits with the most powerful men and women in business and political circles, none of whom suspected his involvement with international terrorism.
   And that made him an ideal partner to fulfill the promise Deng had made over those watery graves long ago.
   “Hello, my friend,” Al Saud said, extending a manicured hand.
   “Welcome,” Deng replied, shaking his hand, before pulling him closer and whispering, “and congratulations on Norfolk.”
   The smile faded, and for an instant Deng saw the eyes of the terrorist glinting in Al Saud’s dark stare as he whispered back, “With your intelligence and my… worldwide resources, that small test is just the beginning. Just the beginning.”
   A short and slightly overweight man in a far less well-tailored suit stepped up behind Al Saud. Mostly bald, with a wispy mustache and round glasses, he didn’t look the type that normally traveled in Al Saud’s circles.
   “This is Dr. Ayman al-Rouby,” said Al Saud. “He will be performing the inspection.”
   Deng barely acknowledged the man before sweeping an open hand toward the motorcade of black Mercedes-Benz SUVs.“Come,” he said. “Our Russian associates are waiting by the docks.”
   — 7 —GULF OF OMAN, NEAR THE COAST OF IRAN
   An endless blanket of stars filled the skies of southern Asia from horizon to horizon, as Lt. Amanda Diamante followed Lt. Cmdr. Juan Ricardo approaching the coast. They were skimming the ocean, making their ingress at a shoreline entry point that gave them terrain masking from Iranian radar. Their airspeed remained well below the speed of sound to conserve fuel, avoid supersonic booms that would alert the enemy of their presence, and also because the ordnance carried externally was not designed for supersonic flight.
   The suspected ammunition-storage complex on the outskirts of Zahedan, a city in Iran 150 miles inland, doubled as a terrorist training site for recruits from the United States and Europe. It sat at the southern tip of the Zahedan International Airport, where the Iranian government also maintained a large military base.
   The naval aviator had read enough to know the“self-radicalizing” nature of the people she was about to hit. Generally disaffected teens and young men, angry at the governments and societies of their home nations, many of whom had begun their road to extremism online, following websites and Twitter feeds from known terrorist groups. Some had been recruited in mosques and Islamic “cultural centers,” quietly taken aside when their extremist feelings were demonstrated too publicly and offered the chance to express them in other ways.
   Destroying a training camp known to include citizens from the US, UK, France, and other allied nations would have a high political cost, but the president had made his intentions clear.
   There would not be any exceptions.
   Space-based assets and unmanned aerial vehicles had confirmed the nature of the threat at the secluded compound.
   Ricardo and Amanda rapidly approached the coastline with their exterior lights extinguished, flying a low-altitude profile.
   Deedle, deedle.
   Amanda frowned and glanced down at the flight control system (FCS) caution light, which indicated an error in the fly-by-wire system. Advanced jets typically used a computer to convey the pilot’s flight control inputs to the corresponding flight control surfaces. In the case of the F/A-18E, it was called the flight control system, and a caution light could indicate a possible malfunction — meaning the computer may not convey the correct fight-control commands.
   Stabbing it with a gloved index finger, she reset it, and the light vanished just as the Super Hornet rushed inland from the south, fast and menacing, before turning northeast, skimming the rising terrain. They would attack the compound from the west, popping up at the last second to deliver their weapons from a low-angle dive. Off the target, they would egress in a southerly direction, remaining low level until reaching international waters to avoid Iranian SAMs, then climb to meet up with the KC-135 tankers en route back toVinson before the sun came up.
   That’s the plan, anyway, she thought as they followed the desolate topography and she inched her control column to the right, following Ricardo’s northeasterly turn before adjusting it back to place the Super Hornet in a shallow climb to clear the mountain range.
   Maintaining radio silence, they loosened their formation while arming their Joint Direct Attack Munitions. JDAM technology converted unguided bombs, in this case standard MK 82s, into smart munitions called GBU-38 JDAMs— meaning they could place the five hundred pounders on the ground with ridiculous accuracy.
   Amanda had just taken her hand off the Master Arm switch when she heard the familiardeedle, deedle again.
   “Perfect fucking timing,” she deadpanned to herself.
   After checking for other problems with her jet, Amanda quickly reset it again, and the caution light once more went out.
   Breathing a sigh of relief, she shifted her gaze back to the tail of her flight leader as he—
   Deedle, deedle.
   “This can’t be happening!”
   Hesitant to break radio silence as they approached their target, now less than forty miles away, Amanda again reset the FCS. The light went out, and everything seemed to go back to normal.
   Glaring at the FCS caution light as if it were a rattlesnake, she started to thumb the radio switch and then stopped.We’ll be off the target in another few minutes. Suck it up, Miss Iowa.
   Hugging the terrain twenty miles south of the compound, she shadowed Ricardo’s turn to their run-in heading, flying perfect formation and praying the flight controls would cooperate for the next few minutes.
   When Ricardo’s aircraft began the pull to initiate their pop-up maneuver seven miles out, Amanda followed and began edging away from her flight leader to avoid a midair collision should her questionable fly-by-wire system decide to act up again. She could not wait to pull off target and head for motherVinson.
   When the F/A-18Es were almost vertical, Ricardo began his roll into the target roughly a mile west of the airport, and Amanda began her roll behind—
   Deedle, deedle.
   “C’mon!” she screamed, but continued to roll the aircraft, attempting to reset the FCS while momentarily losing sight of her flight leader. She eased the throttles back to maintain separation.
   Seconds from bomb release, she saw the glow from Ricardo’s twin engines. Safely behind him, she concentrated on delivering her bombs on target, taking solace in watching the GBU-38s drop from her underside pylons.
   But as she began a high-g pullout, bottoming out close to the ground, her fighter began an un-commanded roll to the left.
   Deedle, deedle.
   “For the love of—”
   Amanda cocked the stick full right, but the aircraft continued to roll to the left. She instinctively pressed on the right rudder as the plane passed 110 degrees of bank.
   But as she started to reach for the ejection seat handle, the jet began to respond. Sucking in a lungful of oxygen, she wrestled with the flight controls, frantically trying another reset.
   No luck.
   The nose of the fighter jet continued to rise higher as Amanda used the trim switch to bring it down to the horizon. The“trim” was basically a set of small control surfaces hinged to the end of the ailerons and elevators that could be used to partially counter the erroneous FCS commands.
   “Ricky, I’m in trouble,” she said, finally breaking radio silence.
   “Diamond, say posit.”
   “I’m headed eastbound. FCS failure.”
   “I’m heading your way, ease your power.”
   “Easing the power,” she replied in a strained voice. “I’ve got a soup-sandwich going on in this fucking Rhino. Total FUBAR.”
   “Hang in like you-know-who,” he said.
   As hard as she tried to get the aircraft to turn right, it continued to roll left and yawed in uncoordinated flight, and the trim mechanism didn’t have enough play to counter it fully.
   Amanda decided to try a shallow turn to the left and continue 270 degrees until the erratic jet pointed due south.
   “I’m trying a two-seventy to the left.”* * *
   “Copy that,” Ricardo replied, knowing that Amanda was in serious trouble, but all he could do was follow her and hope that they were able to make it back to the ship.
   He made a large heading change to where he thought her jet would be.“Diamond, flash your lights.”
   “Roger.”
   He searched the sky for her.
   “Do you have a visual, Ricky?”
   “Negative,” he replied in a worried voice.* * *
   Amanda continued to muscle the plane in an awkward turn to the left.“I’m headed north and coming around to the west.”
   “Copy, let’s have the lights, Diamond.”
   She left them on for six seconds.“Do you have me?”
   “Negative. Say altitude.”
   Keeping a level turn, she watched her flight instruments.“I’m at six hundred feet passing through west looking for a southern heading.”
   “Copy that,” Ricardo replied.“I’m leveling at seven hundred feet.”
   “Roger,” she replied, breathing hard, considering turning on her AN/APG-79 AESA radar, capable of tracking air targets, to locate her flight leader. But they were over Iranian territory and doing so would paint a big X on her back for the Sayyad-3 SAM stations that the intelligence briefing indicated were guarding the airport. She considered contacting one of the E-2D Advanced Hawkeyes airborne early warning and control planes overseeing all of the sorties, but their flight had taken them just north of the radar range of the nearest E-2D circling over the Arabian Sea. “This is a nightmare.”
   “Hang in there. We’ll get you home.”
   Amanda could now see flames from the target they’d destroyed. Two secondary explosions confirmed ammunition had been stored in one of the buildings. By the time she nursed her malfunctioning Super Hornet around to a southerly heading, she would be very near the bombed terrorist compound.
   Breathing in gasps, Amanda keyed her radio.“I’m passing near the target, almost ready to roll out,” she said in a tight voice.
   “Lights,” Ricardo replied.
   She flashed her exterior lights.
   “No joy. I’ll flash mine.”
   “Oh no!” Amanda cried out, frantically shoving the nose of her Super Hornet down to avoid slamming into her flight leader. “You went right over me. Directly over me!”
   “Shit! Turn straight south. I’ll find you after we’re out of Dodge.”
   She tried to get the nose up, bottoming out at two hundred feet above the ground, but as the jet began to climb a few feet, it violently rolled to the left.
   Amanda reached for the Martin-Baker Series-14 ejection seat’s handle and froze as the aircraft passed the inverted position. Punching out inverted at low altitude would be fatal.
   Panic-stricken, Amanda paused as the aircraft rolled upright. She yanked the throttles to idle and extended the speed brake, slowing the Super Hornet to just over three hundred knots.“Losing control. Ejecting! Ejecting!”
   Amanda pulled the firing handle on the side of her seat and immediately felt the flight harness retraction unit hugging her like a bear.
   A series of bolts filled with an explosive charge detonated, jettisoning the canopy from the fuselage just as small rocket thrusters attached on its forward lip pushed it out of the ejection path, vanishing in the slipstream.
   The wind noise roared inside the open cockpit, hammering her eardrums even under the helmet. A series of mechanical operations took place in under a second as the Mk14 seat moved into position up the rail and the system released the top latch. An instant later, the cables attached to her boots yanked her feet back, hard.
   An emergency beacon started broadcasting even before the underseat rockets fired, blasting her into the darkness.
   Amanda gasped as she accelerated like a missile. More than fifteen g-forces piled up on her in a second, compressing her vertebrae. The windblast took her breath away.
   She felt like she was riding a roller coaster on steroids as someone punched and tugged on her from every angle. Amanda tried to get her bearings, but she had tunnel vision because of the extreme g-forces.
   Then her seat kicked her in the back like a mule. Her head flew backward as she was shot forward by the drogue parachute’s firing from the back of the seat.
   And that was the first time her sight cleared enough to see the ejection seat falling away, as the main parachute snapped and blossomed above her, violently yanking her skyward and upright with a powerful jolt against her shoulders.
   Jesus!
   She barely had time to reorient herself before her Super Hornet crashed five seconds later in a blazing fireball that spread across the ground and shot up into the night sky.
   Amanda watched in shock and denial, then it hit her that the burning wreckage sat less than a mile from the terrorist compound, just beyond a dirt road snaking its way through a series of shallow and rocky hills toward the airport and the military base. She could actually see the beacon from Zahedan International Airport roughly three miles away.
   She drifted for about a minute, but regretfully the prevailing winds carried her to the foot of a rocky hill between the remains of her bird and the compound she’d just hit. Secondary explosions rumbled in the distance as fires propagated across the base, reaching weapons, explosives, and fuel depots.
   The terrain rushed up to meet her, and she rolled the instant her boots hit the ground with a resounding thud, just as she had drilled, ending on her side nearly out of breath, the parachute fluttering behind her.
   The sporadic splashes of red, yellow, and gold from the compound, as well as from the burning jet, lit up the darkness around her.
   Get up.
   Ignoring her aching back and neck, Amanda managed to sit and take stock of herself.
   Her ankle throbbed a little from the Mk14 leg line yanking her feet back prior to ejection, but she was able to flex it and seemed otherwise uninjured. Pushing herself to her feet, she staggered around to gather her parachute and quickly piled some rocks on it to keep it from becoming a signal flag blowing in the breeze. She began walking away from the crash site, her mind still fuzzy, unclear.
   Get it together and start thinking.
   She stopped for a moment when she heard Ricardo’s jet circling. Grabbing the AN/PRC-149 naval survival radio strapped to the vest she wore over her flight suit, and circling slowly to get a look at her surroundings, Amanda set the volume on the lowest setting, keyed the switch, and whispered, “Dash-One, Dash-One, I’m okay, just a sore ankle but can walk.”
   “Roger that. I’m contacting CSAR now,” Ricardo shot back, referring to combat search and rescue.
   “Copy,” she whispered.* * *
   In order to help coordinate the rescue effort, Ricardo needed fuel, so he turned south, toward the closest KC-135R tanker circling over the Arabian Sea.
   He spoke clearly to Amanda.“Dash-One is going to top off the tanks; back ASAP.”
   “Hurry.”
   “You bet; hang in,” he radioed as he shoved the throttles forward.* * *
   A sudden sense of loneliness came over Amanda as she listened to the sound of the fighter jet vanishing in the southern skies.
   Get away from the crash site and to high ground as fast as possible.
   Moving swiftly but quietly, she removed her helmet, torso harness, G-suit, scarf, nutrition bars, and Nomex flight gloves, keeping just her water flask, her radio, and her sidearm, a standard-issue Sig Sauer P229. The 9 mm semiautomatic was holstered across the chest of her flight vest. Remembering her survival training, Amanda spent the next fifteen minutes laying a false trail away from the hill, dropping items at random for nearly a quarter mile. She then doubled back and headed up the shallow hill flanking the dirt road, breathing heavily and working the soreness out of her ankle as she crested it. She then hid behind a clump of boulders that provided her with a reasonable vantage point over the burning wreckage.
   From here, she could also see the first signs of daylight in the east: just a faint band of lavender forming between the starry sky and a distant mountain range.
   That’s not good.
   Something else suddenly caught her attention: headlights, coming from the direction of the airport.
   And that’s worse.
   She spotted five sets following the winding road, kicking up a column of dust. As their high beams crisscrossed each other in the darkness, she was able to make out three large Soviet-style military trucks and two armored half-tracks.
   Crap.
   During her entire military career, Amanda had known there might come a time where she could face precisely what she now faced. She had also heard stories of the fate of captured soldiers and downed pilots in the hands of jihadists. It was the stuff of nightmares.
   The thought of what the bastards inside those trucks could do to a female pilot who had just bombed the hell out of them sent a chill down her—
   Courage is fear holding on a minute longer.
   She inhaled deeply, trying to find strength in the words from that old crop duster pilot quoting General Patton.
   The vehicles passed within seventy yards of her position as they steered toward the wreckage, and peeking over the rim of the boulder hiding her, she felt a wave of panic.
   The open truck beds were full of soldiers.
   Iranian troops.
   Amanda estimated at least a dozen men in each vehicle.
   They pulled off the road and stopped a couple hundred feet from the remains of her jet. The soldiers piled out of the vehicles and spread out around the burning wreckage.
   Two of the trucks had powerful spotlights that swept the area around the crash site, stabbing the night.
   She checked her watch. Ricardo had flown away almost twenty minutes ago, meaning that CSAR should already be on the way, and hopefully with some escorts.
   Swallowing the lump forming in her throat, Amanda continued watching the men below and heard a loud commotion when someone found her parachute and assorted flight gear. Several of the troops began walking in the direction of her discarded items.
   The distraction is working, she thought, feeling a sense of hope. But then three soldiers armed with AK-47s decided to head the other way, their flashlight beams leading the way, up her hill.
   Shit. Shit. Shit.
   She drew the Sig, whose magazine held fifteen jacketed hollow-point rounds plus one in the chamber.
   Sixteen rounds would buy her only a short reprieve before the inevitable happened. But if Amanda were to be completely honest with herself, she would admit that she could only use fifteen rounds.
   Because the last one would be for her.
   No way those bastards are capturing me alive.
   As the trio climbed up the hill and Amanda tightened her grip on the weapon, a single thought flooded her mind.
   Ricky, where the hell are you?* * *
   The higher Ricardo climbed, the more daylight he saw over the horizon. As soon as he shot back over the Arabian Sea and in range of an E-2D Advanced Hawkeye, the controller gave him an initial vector to the nearest US Air Force KC-135R Stratotanker. Deciding that it was safe to turn on his AN/APG-79 AESA air-to-air radar, Ricardo promptly located the four-engine aircraft.
   With assistance from a mission system operator in the Advanced Hawkeye, he had initiated a request for a navy HH-60H Seahawk strike-rescue helicopter. The CSAR vessel had already been dispatched.
   With time slipping away and Amanda in grave danger, he closed in on the tanker at an excessive rate. With his experience, Ricardo felt confident he could handle the rendezvous without underrunning the tanker.
   The KC-135R orbited at 25,000 feet and 250 knots. Ricardo maintained 470 knots until he glimpsed the tanker in a left-hand racetrack pattern. Expediting the rendezvous, Ricardo approached the aircraft on a constant bearing line to join on the left wing of the tanker.
   “Jumbo Fifteen,” Ricardo transmitted in a clipped voice, “Dragon One-Zero-Eight has you in sight.”
   “Roger, call port observation.”
   “Copy that.” Ricardo waited until the last second before he simultaneously brought his throttles to idle and extended his speed brake. Slowing, he cross-controlled the airplane and leveled the F/A-18E at 24,500 feet and 285 knots. Extending his refueling probe, he rapidly ascended and stabilized his Super Hornet at 250 knots on the KC-135R’s port wing.
   He keyed his radio and spoke rapidly.“Dragon One-Zero-Eight, port side, nose cold, switches safe, requesting nine point five.” The report indicated Ricardo’s 20 mm M61A2 Vulcan cannon was not armed and he wanted 9,500 pounds of jet fuel.
   The tanker pilot responded,“Dragon One-Zero-Eight, cleared in for nine point five.”
   “Roger, One-Oh-Eight cleared in.”
   Ricardo eased behind the Stratotanker and smoothly plugged into the refueling basket on his first attempt. As the fuel gauges slowly climbed, Ricardo’s thoughts focused on Amanda, some four hundred miles away.* * *
   Amanda held her breath as the three soldiers approached her hideout, their yellow beams sweeping across the row of waist-high boulders. A few seconds later, she heard a familiar sound. The men also heard it because they immediately stopped and turned to look in its direction.
   Nervously alert, when she recognized the telltale sound of an approaching helicopter, her heart jumped to her throat.
   Oh God, let it be one of ours.
   The soldiers remained focused on the noise, and Amanda sensed that none of them knew if it was friend or foe.
   Time stood still as the sound of the approaching helicopter seemed to become fixed at a distant point. She counted the seconds hoping for a miracle. If the helicopter were Iranian, it would be overhead any moment.
   Amanda closed her eyes for a moment, listening, then realized what was happening.
   CSAR’s waiting for air cover!
   She heard more orders being shouted, and she guessed it had to do with growing concern about the helicopter. The minutes seemed like hours as Amanda became jumpier… and the voices only grew louder.
   Then the beams from their flashlights began to move again toward the hilltop, approaching her position.* * *
   While he watched his fuel state increase, Ricardo coordinated with the Advanced Hawkeye for more fighter aircraft to cover the rescue helicopter. Finally, after receiving 9,200 pounds of jet fuel, the waiting became too great. He eased out of the basket and retracted his refueling probe.“Jumbo Fifteen, thanks for the drink, switching.”
   “Dragon cleared down and to the right, good luck.”
   “Down and to the right, thanks.” He lowered the nose, selected burner, and switched to the Advanced Hawkeye. “Liberty Bell, Liberty Bell, Dragon One-Zero-Eight, any help on the way?”
   “Roger that,” the mission systems operator replied.“You have two Rhinos at your seven o’clock, three miles, in burner. Dragon Four-Zero-Seven and Four-Zero-Two have a tally on you, switching them to your frequency.”
   “Copy that.” Ricardo eased his power back and waited a few seconds. “Dragon Four-Zero-Seven and Four-Zero-Two, Dragon One-Zero-Eight with you.”
   “Ricky Ricardo,” a calm voice came over the radio that he recognized as belonging to Lieutenant Commander Trey“Mullet” Malloy, leading a two-plane F/A-18E Super Hornet section.“We’re closing fast.”
   “Bring ’em!”* * *
   Aboard the HH-60H Seahawk search and rescue helicopter, call sign Astro Six-Five, Lieutenant Commander James Borland, the helicopter aircraft commander, checked in as Ricardo, and his new wingmen began descending in burner.
   “Dragon One-Zero-Eight, Astro Six-Five is holding. We have a visual on smoke from the crash site.”
   “Roger,” Ricardo replied.“We’re inbound to clear you an LZ.”* * *
   When Ricardo had a visual on the wreckage, he keyed his radio.“Okay, Dragons, arm ’em up.”
   “Roger that,” Malloy replied from Dragon Four-Zero-Seven.
   “Zero-Two with a copy. Armed.”* * *
   With daylight only minutes away, Amanda couldn’t leave the boulders without being seen. The soldiers were coming closer. She said one last prayer, feeling raw panic in the pit of her stomach as she gripped the pistol in both hands and waited.
   When one of the men came within fifty feet of her, she inhaled a breath and steadied her weapon.
   Sorry, Mom. Sorry, Dad. Maybe I should have stayed on the farm, she thought just before she started to squeeze the trigger. But she stopped when hearing the roar of jet fighters approaching. The soldiers paused and looked up at the trio of Super Hornets in trail formation. She heard boots pounding as the soldiers down on the road began running for their trucks. Then she heard what she presumed was their commanding officer yelling angrily, giving orders. It became clear the boss was planning to stand his ground, rather than run from the incoming jets.
   “Diamond, are you clear of the wreckage?” Ricardo’s voice came over the radio, barely audible since she had turned the volume nearly to off. He sounded worried.
   “Affirmative. I’m clear,” she whispered. “Top of the hill behind some boulders. Got three guys almost on top of me,” she whispered.
   “I see you. Hang on.”* * *
   “Astro Six-Five,” Ricardo radioed the Seahawk the moment he spotted Amanda on the hill overlooking the wreckage and the line of trucks. “We’re in hot; you are cleared in for the pickup.”
   “Astro Six-Five is on the way,” the CSAR helicopter commander radioed, determination in his voice.
   Muzzle flashes erupted from multiple points on the ground as the soldiers began firing at Ricardo’s Super Hornet.
   He turned the control column toward the closest truck and opened up the Vulcan for just a few seconds. Twenty-millimeter rounds ripped into the vehicle, nearly cutting it in half. Some of the soldiers began running toward the remaining trucks while others disappeared in the opposite direction. A few of the ground troops, including the three men closest to Amanda, dropped to the ground and warily watched the three F/A-18Es.
   Ricardo and his wingmen pulverized another truck as it tried to make an escape in the opposite direction. In an effort to save ammunition and fuel, the pilots pulled up and circled the wreckage when the helicopter appeared. The last truck and the two half-tracks roared off at full throttle. The rest of the soldiers were left stranded in the open. Several started running uphill, toward Amanda’s position.
   Ricardo managed a quick breath and keyed his radio.“Diamond, keep your head down!”
   “Wilco,” Amanda uttered in an uneasy voice.
   “Astro Six-Five,” Ricardo radioed, “do you have a visual on the wreckage?”
   “That’s affirm, we have a visual,” the CSAR pilot replied.“We’re about forty seconds out.”
   “Roger, forty seconds.” Ricardo snapped the jet into a tight turn to align himself with his target. “Astro, I’m going to make a firing run from east to west. The pilot is behind some boulders atop the hill a hundred feet south of where I’ll be aiming.”
   “We have the downed pilot in sight,” the CSAR pilot said excitedly.“Making our approach now, taking a few rounds!”
   Ricardo keyed his radio.“Hang in, we’ll cover you.”* * *
   “Astro has a copy,” Borland replied, concentrating on making an abrupt flare and landing close to the pilot, but a number of soldiers were now firing uphill when they realized where the helicopter was headed. “It’s getting hot over here!”
   “I’m in,” Ricardo announced firmly.* * *
   Amanda watched as Ricardo rolled in and began his run. Knowing when he would be firing at the soldiers rushing up the hill, she covered her head a second before the dirt began flying, and the ground trembled under her feet as hundreds of 20 mm rounds pounded the desert.* * *
   As Ricardo pulled up at the end of his pass, he glanced over his shoulder at the two orbiting Super Hornets.“Dragons, keep their heads down, faces in the dirt!”
   “Zero-Seven!”
   “Zero-Two!”* * *
   Amanda waited a moment and then looked over the edge of the boulders. One of the men was dead, but the other two, though hollow-eyed and stunned, looked at her. Both reached for their rifles.
   But Amanda was ready, firing in rapid succession, scoring direct hits in the chest, two each, the reports echoing in her ears.
   Then she began running toward the incoming helicopter.* * *
   “Zero-Seven’s in hot,” Ricardo heard Malloy say.
   Ricardo saw Amanda fire at the soldiers and run, but two more Iranians had made it to the hill and were about to shoot her in the back.
   “Diamond, get down, get on the ground!”
   He saw Amanda dive like a runner stealing second. As she lay spread-eagled, Malloy used his 20 mm cannon to rip the two soldiers to shreds.* * *
   Borland kept the Csar helicopter ready for an immediate departure.
   “Astro Six-Five is taking fire, taking more hits!”* * *
   “Diamond, get up!” Ricardo yelled.“Run for the helo!”
   Amanda jumped to her feet and scrambled as fast as she could. After covering half the distance to the helicopter, she watched as the earth to her right began flying into the air from AK-47 rounds fired from an unseen position. She dove again as the helicopter’s door gunner opened up with the M240 machine gun.
   Before she could react, a helmeted crew member had already sprinted from the side door, pulled Amanda to her feet, and helped her to the waiting Seahawk.
   They crawled aboard while rounds continued pinging the fuselage like hammers. As the HH-60H began to lift off, it started to spew smoke.
   Sliding on a pair of green David Clark noise-canceling headphones already jacked into the helicopter’s intercom, Amanda grabbed on to an overhead pipe as the door gunners continued pounding the hillside with their M240s. Meanwhile, the Super Hornet trio unloaded more rounds on the remaining soldiers. She could hear their chatter in the squadron frequency as they cleared the way for the Seahawk.
   The helicopter’s left General Electric turboshaft belched more black smoke and fire and the entire fuselage vibrated. Then she heard it spool down, smothering the flames.
   “Hey, are we going down?” she asked a helmeted gunner.
   “Negative, ma’am!” he replied, his M240D trained on the ground. “The Navy provided us with a spare engine!”
   The Super Hornets made a final sweep with the cannons for insurance before Malloy decided to risk another pass to drop a couple of bombs on what remained of Amanda’s bird — just to make sure it was destroyed.
   Amanda watched the show as the helicopter steered away from the kill zone. But apparently, Malloy was not satisfied, because he made yet another pass with his canons blasting, tearing up the road and any remaining soldiers, even though they no longer posed a danger to the helicopter. Ricardo and the other Super Hornet were already moving away from the kill zone escorting the CSAR helo.
   What the hell is Mullet doing? she thought as the big Seahawk accelerated away into a clear and bright morning, but remained close to the rocky terrain to avoid SAMs until they reached the shoreline. A moment later Malloy also joined the egressing convoy.
   “Hey, Mullet, I think you missed a couple,” Amanda heard Ricardo say.
   “Just making a statement, man. Nobody fucks with the Dragons.”
   Amanda shook her head.
   The pilot handed control to the copilot and stepped away from the cockpit to check in on his passenger.
   Plugging back into the ICS, he looked at the disheveled fighter pilot. Her flight suit and hair were dirty from her dive for cover, and her hands were scratched and bleeding. A corpsman daubed at a cut on her chin with gauze.“You all right, Diamond?” Borland asked.
   Amanda smiled for the first time that day, then winced as she opened the cut on her chin further.“Never been better, Lieutenant! You and your guys definitely rock!”
   — 8 —ON THE BORDER OF SYRIA AND IRAQ
   The long, desolate boundary between Syria and Iraq had long ago turned into an open doorway for jihadists to cross from Syria into Iraq. Faced with growing internal conflict, the Syrian president, along with his council of ministers, had turned a collective blind eye to the activities of all but those directly opposing them.
   Thirty-five minutes before daylight, eight cells of insurgents, each ranging from twenty-four to thirty-nine men, began crossing into Iraq. They were spaced at approximately one-mile intervals, near Jabal at Tanf, halfway between the Dead Sea and the Euphrates River.
   High overhead the barren landscape, an unmanned Global Hawk reconnaissance aircraft sent a video feed to a command center at Lajes Air Base in the Azores, several hundred miles off the coast of Portugal. There, the drone operator determined the coordinates of the infiltrators and fed them to a flight of two United States Air Force B-1B Lancer bombers from Dyess Air Force Base, Texas. Flying in trail, the sharklike supersonic aircraft were hugging the ground at two hundred feet as they snaked their way toward the targets.* * *
   The early-morning air seemed eerily still, with not a sound to be heard in the wide, arid Syrian Desert. While the terrorists smoked cigarettes and discussed their immediate plans, they were unaware of the two four-engine bombers rapidly approaching.* * *
   With their swing-wings swept back, the dark gray camouflaged planes were impossible to detect close to the ground. Like a supersonic lawn dart, the sleek bombers stalked their unsuspecting prey. There would be no sound, no warning for the terrorists. The enemy would suffer a triple shock: first from the sudden and mind-numbing sonic boom, second from the roar of the four powerful afterburners, and third, from the concussions of the massive carpet-bombing. With the second B-1B five miles behind, the lead bomber would overfly the first two cells and drop conventional MK 82 500-pound bombs on the third and fourth groups. The second B-1B aircraft commander would unload his string of bombs on the first and second cells.* * *
   When the lead bomber rocketed over the first two targets, the explosive, eardrum-splitting sonic boom literally knocked the terrorists in the second cell to their knees. The stunned, temporarily deaf insurgents watched in horror as bombs rained down less than a mile away. Whatever it was, the flying demon disappeared in the blink of an eye.
   Feeling euphoric that they had dodged the massacre, the terrorists barely had time to breathe a sigh of relief before they literally ceased to exist. Delivering tons of astonishing destruction, the second B-1B had added forty-one dead to the thirty-one from the lead bomber.* * *
   Fifty-five seconds later, the first of two B-52 heavy bombers rolled in for their run over the terrorists. The formidable“Buffs” dropped conventional bomb loads on the insurgents, killing an additional fifty-five terrorists and severely injuring seventeen.
   Following the heavy bombers, a two-plane section of Air Force A-10 Thunderbolts hunted the survivors who tried to escape in every direction. Suffering from shock and fear, many of the terrorists sprawled on their stomachs and pretended to be dead. The attack“Warthogs” killed an additional fourteen jihadists, and made high-speed, low-altitude passes over the terrified survivors. Any who escaped would not forget the horrific, buzzing sound of the 30 mm, seven-barrel cannon carving ten-foot-wide tracks on the rocky terrain.
   The A-10s orbited overhead until three Marine Corps AH-1W Super Cobra attack helicopters arrived on the scene. The“Snakes” would loiter over the area and wait to see if anyone tried to make a break.
   The Marine aviators were not going to gun down the terrorists. They wanted the survivors to carry the message back to their fellow terrorists. Not only could the Americans track them anywhere, anytime, but the terrorists wouldn’t even see or hear them coming.PORT OF LISBON, PORTUGAL
   The warehouse by the private pier swarmed with guards from three different nationalities. Prince Omar Al Saud had brought his own men, a half dozen professional operatives dressed like businessmen, carrying 9 mm Micro Uzi submachine guns under their jackets.
   General Deng Xiangsui always traveled with an entourage of PLA Special Operation Forces as his private security detail, all armed with a mix of JS 9 mm submachine guns and QSZ-92 pistols.
   And the third party in the negotiations, Ivanovich Zyubov, former Soviet general and GRU operative, arrived at the pier with his own protection, a dozen members of the Russian Mafia, some formerSpetsnaz—Russian special forces — armed with enough weapons to start a revolution.
   All of which led to a very tense atmosphere as the three negotiators waited for Dr. Ayman al-Rouby to inspect the contents of the case that two of Zyubov’s men had hauled from a truck to the warehouse.
   Neither Deng nor Al Saud had ever seen a tactical nuclear weapon— or “suitcase nuke”—before, so they stood behind Dr. al-Rouby, while Zyubov, a trim, grim-faced man with dark circles around his equally dark eyes, waited patiently for the suitcase full of cash being guarded by Al Saud’s men.
   “It is the real thing, yes?” Zyubov said before checking his watch.
   Deng ignored him, as did Al Saud, listening to Dr. al-Rouby speak in an almost forensic tone.“This is an implosion-type weapon using conventional explosives as the firing charge, an electronic trigger mechanism connected to a digital counter, plus two sets of uranium-235 rings. Based on its size, I’m estimating a yield of around two kilotons.”
   Deng and Al Saud looked over at the Russian, who gave them a thumbs-up and said,“Good. Yes?”
   But they ignored him again as Dr. al-Rouby used a laser pointer to identify the components of the three-foot-long weapon.“The rings of the projectile have been properly stacked against the conventional charge, and the correct distance separates it from the rings of the target. Upon firing, the projectile will impale the target and reach the desired critical mass to achieve fission, thus the termimplosion-type device. Very simple and very effective.”
   He spent another ten minutes measuring the uranium rings, as well as using a variety of instruments, including a Geiger counter, to inspect the weapon.“I assure you,” he said, “that the radioactive exposure from the weapon is negligible.”
   Finally, he looked up and said,“It is acceptable.”
   “And the blast radius, Doctor?” Al Saud asked.
   “I’m estimating an effective radius of just under a kilometer, destroying an area approximately two kilometers in size.”
   The Saudi prince looked at his guards flanking the suitcase and gave them a subtle nod.
   It took Zyubov just a couple of minutes to inspect its contents before zipping it shut.“Good business, yes?” he said.
   “Yes, General,” Al Saud replied. “Good business.”
   After the Russians were gone, Al Saud’s team closed the case and carried it to a pier along the far end of the warehouse, where the prince approached a stocky man with dark hair dressed in gray coveralls. He stood quietly by the short gangway connecting the pier to a motorsailer yacht with the nameSanto Erasmus painted in blue across its stern.
   The large Cheoy Lee transoceanic vessel registered to a private charter company out of Bilbao, Spain, monopolized almost eighty feet of waterfront.
   “Don Omar,” the man said in a thick accent, heavily rolling theR. His well-tanned face sported the handsome damage from years out at sea.
   “Hello, Javi,” the prince replied before turning to Deng and adding, “General, meet Javier Ibarra. One of my associates from Spain,and the best smuggler in the business.”
   Deng shook the man’s calloused hand, noticing the strong grip. But what impressed him the most were his dark eyes, steady and focused, like those of his best fighter pilots. And that alone instilled confidence that this stranger and his equally stoic crew gathering at the top of the gangway might just be able to pull this off.
   “A pleasure, General,” Ibarra said.
   “The pleasure is mine,” Deng replied as Al Saud’s guards rolled the case up to them. “The pleasure isall mine.”USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), ARABIAN SEA
   Lt. Amanda“Diamond” Diamante made it out of sick bay by midmorning and headed to the squadron room, or “ready room” of the Golden Dragons, located on the 03 Level immediately below the flight deck. She found Lt. Cmdr. Juan Ricardo and Lt. Cmdr. Trey Malloy sitting by the bar stools along the back of the room, where a new De’Longhi espresso machine provided the fuel that kept the pilots going. The machine had been a gift from the squadron commander, who knew the Navy ran on coffee but thought it needn’t bebad coffee.
   Five rows of airline-style armchair seats faced the main board at the front of the room. Typically, a few pilots would occupy them working on their laptops or preparing for their flights. But in sharp contrast with the bustling activity prior to last night’s raids, the majority of the Golden Dragons fighter pilots were either sleeping, having some chow, or, like Ricardo and Malloy, enjoying a cup of coffee.
   Along the left side of the room hung the squadron’s “Greenie Board” that provided the up-to-date results on the carrier landings for each member of the fighter squadron. Green represented a “4.0 OK Pass,” and the best pilots had a string of greens after their names; the rest had a dispersion of yellows for a “3.0 Fair Pass,” brown for a “2.0 No Grade,” and red for “1.0 Wave Offs.” The board also ranked the pilots by providing an average for their recent landings similar to a college grade point average, or GPA. Ricardo had the highest in the squadron at 4.0. Malloy was second at 3.93. Their CO, Commander Benjamin “Dover” Kowalski, ranked third at 3.87. Amanda had ranked fourth at 3.84 before last night’s flight. Her name was now at the bottom until the incident could be reviewed.
   And to make matters worse, she could no longer find her name in the flight schedule hanging between the Greenie Board and a large flat screen slaved to the PLAT system, the Pilot’s Landing Aid Television fed by the five cameras covering the entire flight deck, providing continuous views of landings and launches.
   “There she is! Quickdraw Diamante!” Malloy shouted. A native of San Diego, who looked like a surfer rather than a naval aviator, Malloy had once sported his call sign as an actual hairstyle, but it had been left on the floor the day he’d joined the Navy. He was average height but very muscular.
   In contrast, Ricardo fit the classic Hispanic stereotype, thin and a bit shorter than Amanda’s five-nine, with very short, dark-brown hair and brown eyes, a smooth honey-colored skin, and a chiseled, angular face. They wore their flight suits sporting shoulder patches depicting a golden dragon holding a mushroom cloud in its claw.
   “How’s the ankle?” Ricardo asked.
   “Fine,” Amanda said, producing a small plastic bottle of ibuprofen. “Take two before bedtime and call in the morning.”
   “Join us for a latte courtesy of your friendly squadron commander?” Malloy offered.
   “Speaking of that, have you gotten your ‘bend-over’ time yet?” Ricardo asked. Then increasing the pitch of his voice, he added, “’Cause you got some ’splainin’ to do, Lucy!”
   She smiled without humor.“I had to bail, guys. Stick was nonresponsive.”
   “I keep telling you, Mullet,” Ricardo said, poking Malloy’s large bicep with an index finger. “That’s why you gotta get off those steroids, dude. FCS failure.”
   Malloy was about to reply when an Asian man in his midforties with a full head of short salt-and-pepper hair stormed the ready room dressed in a desert flight suit. The silver oak leaves of a commander were stitched on his shoulders. Two other men, also in flight suits, followed him. They sported the gold oak leaves of lieutenant commanders, like Ricardo and Malloy. One had a narrow, somewhat gaunt face. The other was well tanned and heavyset, and held a clipboard and a pen.
   All three pilots jumped to attention.
   “Diamond! What the hell?!” shouted Cmdr. Benjamin “Dover” Kowalski, leading the charge in his heavy Brooklyn accent. “That wasn’t some toy aircraft! That was a United States Navy Rhino worth ninety-eight million dollars!” Kowalski had to answer to Captain James Buchelle, the “CAG,” or commander of Carrier Air Wing 2, also called the “Air Boss,” for all twelve F/A-18E Super Hornets assigned to his squadron. Whether the plane had crashed due to an FCS malfunction, as she had reported, or due to pilot error — or even if nailed by a SAM — it was still his responsibility.
   “I kept resetting it, Skipper,” Amanda replied. “But the damn FCS warning light kept coming back with that ‘deedle-fucking-deedle’ chime that I can’t get out of my head.” Everyone in the Golden Dragons fighter squadron referred to their CO as either skipper or sir. Everyone outside ofthe squadron called him Commander Kowalski or by his call sign.
   Malloy and Ricardo chuckled but quickly shut it when Kowalski turned his scorching glare on them.
   “About that, Miss Diamante…,” said Lieutenant Commander Ed Stone, the fighter squadron’s maintenance officer and also a Super Hornet pilot. In charge of keeping the World Famous Golden Dragons airborne, it would be on Stone and his team if the plane had suffered a critical malfunction. Rubbing his bony chin and briefly regarding Kowalski and then the stocky officer next to him making notes on the clipboard, Stone asked, “How much time elapsed from the first time you observed the FCS caution light to the moment you lost control of your Rhino?”
   And that was, of course, the question Amanda had been dreading to answer.“About nine minutes, sir.”
   “I see,” Stone said. “And you reported the problem to your flight leader about thirty seconds after your bombing run?”
   “That’s correct,” she replied, glancing over at the officer making notes.
   “And you concur, Ricky?” the heavyset officer asked, looking up from his clipboard. Lieutenant Commander Vince Nova, the fighter squadron safety officer and also an F/A-18E pilot, would be responsible for performing a thorough investigation of the incident and writing the official report. That report would be sent up the chain of command, starting with Kowalski and then Captain Buchelle, who, along with the skipper ofVinson, Captain Peter Keegan, reported to the embarked flag officer, Rear Admiral Jack Swift, the commander of the Carl Vinson Strike Carrier Group.
   “Yes, sir. Thirty seconds sounds right.”
   “And you guys were subsonic going in, Mr. Ricardo?” asked Kowalski. It was customary to address junior officers by either rank, call sign, or simply by their last names.
   “Correct, Skipper. Went in low and quiet on max endurance,” Ricardo said. “Didn’t feel like catching an Iranian SAM in the ass.”
   Kowalski raised his brows at Stone and Nova, who exchanged glances. The latter made more notes, while Stone pulled out his smartphone, tapped on it for several seconds, then showed it to Nova, who frowned, made another entry on the clipboard, and then tilted it toward Kowalski.
   The strike fighter commander eyed it for a few seconds, shook his head, then said,“So, Lieutenant, you discovered a problem with your aircraft over one hundred and eighty miles from your target — actually before even reaching the Iranian coast — and it didn’t occur to you to just… turn back? Isn’t that the reason we keep the Alert Five aircraft ready to roll?”
   “I thought it would go away, Skipper. Those fly-by-wire systems are always twitchy, and we just reset them and they’re usually good again. Besides, I was over five hundred miles from mother when it happened, so I thought it best to stick with my flight leader.”
   “Which you obviously did,” Kowalski said.
   As Amanda was about to reply, all eyes turned to the flat screen as a Hornet approached the carrier’s stern and snagged the number two wire while slamming onto the flight deck. The ready room trembled and rattled as if a subway train had just careened overhead.
   She paused to let the clanging on the flight deck above them settle down, marking the controlled-crash landing of another navy jet. Although the Golden Dragons were enjoying a break, other squadrons were running daytime raids or flying CAP. Averaging between 120 and 140 sorties launched each day, it translated into somebody landing every ten or so minutes. And even if they were not launching actual strikes, all carrier pilots had to fly practice sorties on average four days a week, and that meant that from noon to around midnight jets constantly took off and landed on a flight deck roughly three football fields in length right over their heads.
   “Well, Lieutenant?” Kowalski asked.
   Amanda decided to stand her ground.“Yes, sir. I chose to stick to my flight leader, and I accomplished my mission. Had I turned back, I would have likely ditched with my full load of bombs. No way was I making it all the way back. At least this way I let those bastards get a piece of Dragon justice before going down.”
   “The fact is, Lieutenant, you really don’t know if you would have made it back or not,” Kowalski said, before looking at his maintenance officer. “And it all checked out before the flight, Mr. Stone?”
   Stone looked behind him toward the open bulkhead and shouted,“Come in, Master Chief!”
   Up to that point, the discussion had been kept strictly among pilots, but now Lt. Cmdr. Stone had pulled in his right-hand man, the senior NCO who oversaw all of the maintenance belowdecks for the Golden Dragons.
   Slowly Maintenance Master Chief Gino Cardona made his way through the bulkhead, dressed in a Navy Working Uniform, leaning down a bit to clear the hatch. The large man always reminded Amanda of Jessie Ventura during his wrestling days. Cardona had been handling maintenance for navy fighter squadrons for the better part of a quarter of a century. Although Stone was the officer ultimately responsible for all aspects of servicing the Golden Dragons’ jets, Cardona was the man in the hangar making it all happen. The master chief, who everyone aboard knew had seen pretty much everything during his years of service, just stood there a moment regarding the scene.
   “Well?” Stone asked. “What’s the word from our boys belowdecks?”
   “Just went over the maintenance records with my line chiefs, sir,” Cardona replied in his booming voice. “All checked out good. That Rhino was in perfect condition when it left my hangar. But, as you know, it isn’t unusual for pilots to report issues when flying that we sometimes can’t reproduce in the shop.”
   “What are you saying, Master Chief?” asked Stone.
   “I’m saying that sometimes shit happens, and we just don’t know why.”
   Stone frowned and gave the large NCO a slight nod before turning to Kowalski and shrugging.“You heard the man, Skipper. It was, well, a fluke.”
   “Yeah,” Kowalski said, his features tightening. “A very fucking expensive fluke, Mr. Stone, and in ten minutes the air boss is going to be chewing on a bowl of Chinese stir-fry with a pound of chopped Polish sausage.” Capt. Buchelle had a reputation for being a tough, old-school aviator whobelieved it was a pilot’s duty to do everything under the sun to bring your bird back home. And it became obvious the moment you stepped in his office. Behind his desk hung a large, framed photo of the man back when he was a young lieutenant standing through the gaping hole in the starboard wing of the F/A-18 Hornet that he had nursed back to the USSSaratoga (CV 60) after surviving a hit from an Iraqi SAM during Operation Desert Storm in 1991.
   “With all due respect, Skipper,” Cardona chimed in. “We all thought it was just a quarter-pounder.” He stated it with a completely impassive face while Stone grinned and Nova looked up from his writing.
   “Go to hell, Master Chief,” Kowalski growled.
   “Copy that, sir,” Cardona replied.
   Amanda kept her eyes front and did not even twitch.
   Looking over at Stone, Cardona added,“Does that mean I’m excused from your naval aviator party, sir?”
   Stone sighed and nodded.“Thank you, Master Chief.”
   “Aye, sir.” And he was gone.
   Turning to all three pilots still standing at attention, Kowalski bellowed,“I want full written reports turned into Mr. Nova by 1500! No excuses! So, stop drinking my lattes and start writing!”
   “Yes, sir!”
   Kowalski then got right in front of Amanda. She could smell his cigarette breath. The man just loved those damn things.
   “So, two ragheads point-blank and now you’re hot shit?”
   “Two shots each, Skipper. Center mass. No way were those Iranian bastards getting their greasy paws on me.”
   Kowalski exchanged glances with Stone and Nova, then he said,“They’re already calling you Quickdraw Diamante. God help us.”
   “I preferDeedle-Deedle, sir,” Stone chimed in.
   Kowalski grinned.“I actually fucking love that! Deedle Diamante it is.”
   She blinked.“What? Wait, I already have a call—”
   “Want to fly again, Deedle?”
   “Aye, sir!”
   “Then go see Mr. Stone after you turn in your report. Maybe he’ll fix you up.”
   “Aye, sir!”
   The commander then turned his attention to Malloy, standing ramrod straight between Ricardo and Amanda.
   “Mullet? What the fuck was that last pass with the canons? The helo was already away.”
   “Ah, Skipper, I saw—”
   “You sawwhat, Mr. Malloy? The chance of exposing yourselfand my plane unnecessarily? Of getting your ass shot down so we had to deal with another downed pilot? A second lost bird? You know better than that!”
   “I do, sir. Sorry, sir.”
   “Yeah,” Kowalski said. “Me too.”
   The commander turned to leave, but just before disappearing through the bulkhead, he looked over his shoulder at all three aviators still standing at attention and said,“Top-notch flying. Helluva fucking rescue… and great shooting. Dragon style.” And then he was gone.
   — 9 —
   The Republic F-105D Thunderchief roared across the night sky, skimming the speed of sound as it flew a Route Pack 6 mission south of Hanoi, unloading twelve thousand pounds of violence from its internal bomb bay precisely where designated by the 338th Tactical Fighter Wing stationed at Korat Royal Thai Air Force Base in Thailand.
   US Air Force Lieutenant Cord“Cordy” Macklin jerked the control column of the single-seater fighter toward him and cringed when seven Gs slammed him into his ejection seat as he pulled out of his bombing dive. The night ignited in red, yellow, and gold when the munitions detonated, flattening the jungle behind him, before the sonic boom reached his cockpit as his Thud shot above four thousand feet.
   Macklin continued cringing, but no longer from the Gs, his blue eyes narrowing as he looked back at his target, and noticed no secondaries. No SA-3 missile sites or weapons depot, contrary to his briefing.
   Just smoking more fucking jungle, he thought, egressing to the west and dropping back to the treetops to avoid getting picked up by a—
   A trail of light rushed up from the jungle a couple of miles south of his target, coming straight for his cockpit at his eleven o’clock.
   So that’s where you bastards were hiding , he thought as the missile warning light blinked on the control panel and an alarm whined inside his cockpit.
   Macklin frowned. The brand-new SA-3s, a vast improvement in speed, range, and accuracy over the SA-2s, demonstrated how the North Vietnamese advantage in radar and missile technology had grown since the beginning of the war.
   But not our countermeasures, he thought, cutting right to place the incoming SA-3 at ninety degrees from his Thud while dispensing chaff.
   C’mon baby, TURN! he thought, gripping the stick and enduring another punishing maneuver as his body weight multiplied almost seven times.
   The SAM went for the chaff, but the SA-3 was just too damn fast, preventing Macklin from achieving the required separation from—
   The blast, blinding and deafening, shredded the empennage of the jet as the control column trembled in his hands and alarms blared in his cockpit. Reaching for the ejection handle, the young pilot pulled it harder than anything in his life.
   An instant before the fire engulfed him—CAMP DAVID, MARYLAND
   President Cord Macklin sat up in bed, his hands balled into fists that had been gripping the ejection handle, the orange glow of his burning jet fading away, replaced by the peaceful semidarkness of his bedroom, where Maria slept next to him.
   Macklin inhaled deeply, trying to catch his breath, his heart hammering in his chest.
   It didn’t matter how much time had passed since his being shot down; the memory remained burned in his mind. And while the president sometimes couldn’t remember what he had had for lunch the day before, he could recall every last damn second of those three days after splashing down in a rice paddy next to a small village.
   He grinned, remembering the reason for the nickname given to the F-105, as his jet had made a loudthud sound when stabbing the same rice paddy a half mile from his position. The smile faded as he recalled the harrowing hours and days that followed, rushing through the jungle with the enemy relentlessly hunting him like a dog, until a hotshot Jolly Green helicopter pilot pulled him out of the bush, sparing him from an extended stay at the legendary Hanoi Hilton, the prison for—
   “Can’t sleep?”
   Macklin turned to see Maria on her side staring up at him.
   Half-asleep, the first lady looked simply lovely in the half-light of the room, and Cord Macklin felt damn glad— and damn lucky — to be married to her.
   Sitting up, she started rubbing his shoulders.“Same dream, honey?”
   “Yeah,” he said, relaxing under her soothing hands. “You’d think by now my brain would have come up with something more recent. Sometimes I feel like it’s just stuck on the Vietnam War channel.”
   She smiled.“It’s one of the ways you process stress,” she said.
   He nodded.“At this moment, hundreds of pilots are risking their lives fighting a war we can’t seem to win… just like back in Nam.”
   Macklin closed his eyes, remembering his conversation with Prost by the trout stream.“Hell,” he finally said, “maybe Hart is onto something with that secret team of his.”
   She stopped and sat sideways to him, hands on her lap.“What was that all about?”
   He stared at her. Even with her messy hair and no makeup, Maria’s beauty stunned him.
   Taking her hands in his and kissing them, he asked,“You sure you want to know?”
   “I’m a big girl, Mr. President. By now you should know I can handle anything you throw my way.”
   Macklin knew that to be the truth. He had marveled at the way she had taken to the role of first lady, leading an initiative to help end childhood hunger, working the phones to ensure funding for her signature program.
   “All right,” he said before sighing and adding, “short version is we’re tired of fighting Hydra.”
   “‘Hydra’? Like inCaptain America?”
   Now it was Macklin’s turn to laugh. “Might as well be, but, no, we’re not on the trail of Red Skull.” He spent the next few minutes telling her about Prost’s task to pull together a fast-action team from the best assets in intelligence and operations — military and civilian — and reporting directly to him, who in turn answered only to Macklin.
   “This time we’re going to make sure no more heads grow. Bastards don’t play by the rules, and neither should we.”
   Her catlike eyes widened in obvious realization that such a directive bypassed the established cabinet protocols.
   “Damn,” she said. “You sure about this? It could be considered illegal, even unconstitutional.”
   “Sweetheart,” he replied, cupping her face before running his thumb over her lips, which she had twisted into a frown. “I’ve only been sure about four things in my life. Joining the Air Force. Running for office. Marrying you. And now this. That’s how sure I am.”
   She blinked.“That’s… quite the statement, Mr. President. Nicest thing anyone’s ever said to me.”
   “Enough to get me a midnight round with the hottest first lady ever?” he asked.
   Maria smiled and rolled on top of him.WHITEMAN AIR FORCE BASE, MISSOURI
   Located two miles south of the quaint community of Knob Noster, Whiteman Air Force Base was home to the Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit radar-evading Stealth Bomber.
   The strategic multi-role aircraft was designed for medium-to-high-altitude target penetration at subsonic speed to avoid detection from the supersonic“boom” footprint, while relying on its stealth design to escape detection from enemy air-defense systems.
   The B-2’s slate-gray flying wing resembled a gigantic boomerang with a sawtooth blade attached to the sleek trailing edge and a “beaver tail” mounted at its center. Officially called the “GLAS,” for gust load alleviation surface, the peculiar tail was used by an onboard computer to balance the aircraft when sensors detected vertical gusts.
   The odd-looking radar-invisible bomber was capable of delivering conventional or nuclear munitions without refueling from a range of six thousand nautical miles. Staging from Whiteman, Diego Garcia, or Guam, it could cover the entire world with only one aerial refueling. Its four General Electric turbofans, buried deep in the flying wing, prevented radar waves from bouncing off the spinning turbine blades and propelled the bomber to a maximum speed of 550 knots and a service ceiling of fifty thousand feet.
   A member of the 393d Bomb Squadron, 509th Bomb Wing at Whiteman AFB, Lieutenant Colonel Wendy Langston glared at the rain lashing the windshield as she settled into the left seat of theSpirit of Indiana. As aircraft commander, Wendy brought a lot of experience flying a variety of Air Force bombers. A graduate of the University of Oklahoma, her nickname had been inevitable: Boomer Sooner.
   Major Dave Jacoby, a former football star at the Air Force Academy, made himself comfortable in the right seat.
   “Hate this damn weather,” Wendy said, frowning.
   “Copy that,” Jacoby replied.
   On paper, the B-2 was an all-weather bomber, but Wendy remembered what had taken place in Guam in February 2008 when as a young captain, she had witnessed theSpirit of Kansas crash and burn on takeoff. The investigation stated that heavy rain had caused moisture to enter the skin-flush air data sensors used to calculate airspeed and altitude, prompting the flight-control computer to inject a sudden thirty-degree pitch-up maneuver while lifting the heavy bomber off the ground twelve knots slower than prescribed in the manual. The crew never had a chance to recover, as the ensuing stall that close to the ground caused the bomber’s left wingtip to stab the grass alongside the runway. Fortunately, they managed to eject just before theSpirit of Kansas tumbled and exploded when its fuel ignited, resulting in the total loss of a $1.4 billion asset.
   Wendy forced the harrowing memory out of her mind and followed the checklist to bring the stealth bomber to life. Twenty minutes later, call sign Shadow 24 was ready to taxi. With permission from the control tower, she added power as the rain continued hammering the windscreen.
   Approaching Runway 19, Jacoby received permission to take off. He glanced at Wendy and spoke over the aircraft intercom system (ICS),“Are you ready to go flying this lovely night?”
   “Let’s roll,” she replied, scanning her instruments one last time and hoping like hell, as she did every time she took off in foul weather, that the engineers at Northrop Grumman had indeed solved the moisture problem for good.
   Jacoby keyed his radio mic.“Shadow Two-Four is cleared, squawking, and rolling.”
   She held her breath as the B-2 careened down the wet runway in a blur of wispy clouds, fog, and rain streaking across the armored windscreen.
   “Here we go,” Wendy stated when they reached takeoff speed, and she nudged the control column back, lifting the nose for a few seconds before theSpirit of Indiana rose through the rain and immediately went in the soup, or IMC— instrument meteorological conditions — losing all visibility.
   “Gear up,” Jacoby announced, and he secured the landing gear, while she kept her eyes glued to her instruments, steering the bomber along the precise departure flight path. They finally broke through the clouds, climbing above twenty-nine thousand feet into a clear night.
   But the beautiful starry sky was lost on Wendy as she talked to the Boeing E-3C AWACS controller from the 552d AWAC Wing at Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma City.“Shadow Two-Four will go dark in thirty seconds.”
   She then glanced over at Jacoby.“Nav lights out.”
   He placed the three-position master mode switch in the go-to-war setting. The quadruple-redundant flight controls now operated in a stealth mode, the radio emitters were turned off, and the weapons systems were ready. The AWACS controller would note the stop squawk from the B-2 transponders that provided position and altitude to both civilian and military aircraft.
   With its transponders off, the B-2 disappeared— literally ceased having any type of radar signature. Only two people now knew the whereabouts or the altitude of Shadow 24.
   “Please tell me the damn computer is tracking,” she said, leveling off at 48,000 feet, well above commercial traffic, and engaging the autopilot.
   “Like an Arkansas bloodhound,” Jacoby quietly chuckled. “Right on the money.”* * *
   Just south of Guatemala City, La Aurora International Airport served the majority of flights into and out of the country. A victim of mismanagement and stalled efforts at renovation, the airport struggled to meet the modern standards of travelers. However, three American airlines did fly there, and the airport was the fourth busiest in Central America.
   Near the outer perimeter of the airport, far away from the wandering eyes of tourists and American airline pilots, sat an Antonov An-26“Curl” twin-engine turboprop transport. The cargo area of the former Mali Air Force aircraft housed fifty oil drums, filled with a deadly combination of fuel, fertilizer, and roofing nails.
   And less than forty miles away, at a private airport, an Antonov An-30“Clank,” formerly of the Romanian Air Force, also had been transformed into a jihadist kamikaze bomber.* * *
   Nearing the Aurora airport, Wendy and Jacoby began their final approach. This mission required surgical precision. Fortunately, flight operations did not take place overnight at the airport, and the radar would be shut down.
   Wendy scanned the multiple screens of the Electronic Flight Instrumentation System (EFIS), confirming their position relative to the target. Seconds later, she released a single GBU-31 JDAM. The Joint Direct Attack Munition technology provided the 500 lb. weapon with integrated inertial guidance coupled to a GPS receiver, giving it improved accuracy over legacy laser-guided or imaging-infrared technology.
   Dropping from one of the internal bays, it glided in a parabolic trajectory, striking the Antonov twenty-one seconds later. A large explosion licked the sky as the ordnance and the explosives inside the cargo plane detonated, lighting up the tarmac in pulsating waves of orange and yellow. The shock wave rattled the panoramic windows at the airport terminal, but no other damaged occurred.
   “One down,” Jacoby commented over the ICS as lights and sirens wailed across the airport.
   “Hope the bastards are sleeping in their planes tonight,” Wendy mumbled as she changed course for the private airfield, where a second JDAM obliterated the An-30 tied down at the edge of the ramp.
   The pilots turned away from the column of flames casting a stroboscopic glare on the surrounding jungle and set a course north, across the Yucatan Peninsula and into the Gulf of Mexico.
   And as theSpirit of Indiana rushed through the night sky completely undetected and approached the coastline south of Pensacola Beach, Florida, the crew members drank bottled water and looked forward to having breakfast at the Classic Cup Café in Kansas City, Missouri.CAMP DAVID, MARYLAND
   At five in the morning, President Cord Macklin followed the smell of bacon to the main room in the Aspen Lodge, where he found Hartwell Prost sitting by a window thumbing his phone and holding a steaming mug of coffee. He couldn’t wait to get his own.
   Before him, the service staff had already laid out a spread of pastries, hard-boiled eggs, hash browns, bacon, and other breakfast choices. And yes, full-leaded coffee.
   Decaf is for wimps, he thought, pouring himself a cup. No cream or sugar.
   “Slept well, Hart?” he asked as Okimoto and his team emerged from the same hallway and deployed around the room.
   “Like a baby, sir. Thank you.”
   “Where’s the motley crew?”
   The DNI stretched an index finger at the window.“Pulling up now.”
   Macklin waited until General Chalmers, Admiral Blevins, Defense Secretary Pete Adair, and Secretary of State Brad Austin settled in and grabbed something from the trays. The Pentagon brass looked exhausted. It was obvious they had been up all night tracking the strikes. Adair wore neutral slacks and a black sweater, while Chalmers wore his Air Force Service Dress Uniform consisting of a three-button coat, matching trousers, and a service cap, which the general kept on the table— all in the Shade 1620 known as “Air Force Blue.” Blevins wore the Navy Service Dress Blues with the prescribed white combination cap.
   Pointing his reading glasses at his secretary of defense, Macklin said,“So, let’s have it, Pete. The good, the bad, and the ugly.”
   Adair, a former Green Beret who loved high-stakes poker and skeet shooting, placed his mug on the coffee table and looked up.“Overall, we had many well-executed, successful strikes. The Air Force as well asLincoln andVinson destroyed all of their assigned objectives, but the latter lost a Rhino.”
   Macklin frowned at the mention of a downed Super Hornet.“SAM?”
   “Equipment malfunction,” said Blevins.
   Macklin nodded, for a moment recalling his own ejection.“It happens. The pilot?”
   “Rescued,” the admiral replied. “Though I heard it was pretty hairy business. Had to take out a contingent of Iranian troops shooting at the pilot and the CSAR helo, while Rhinos fromVinson provided air cover. She’s back on the ship and should return to full flight status shortly.”
   Macklin slowly nodded again, thinking of his recurrent nightmare. It had been harrowing enough for him to get shot down over enemy territory. He could only start to imagine what must have gone through that naval aviator’s head as she waited for the CSAR helo.
   “Glad to hear that,” he finally said. “And Guatemala?” he asked, sipping coffee.
   Chalmers said,“Those planes won’t be bothering us anymore, sir. One of our Boomerangs from Whiteman took care of that.”
   The president nodded.“Great news,” he said evenly before turning to Austin. “When are we speaking to President Duarte?” he asked, referring to the Guatemalan president.
   “Right after this meeting, sir.”
   “All right. What’s next?”
   Chalmers said,“Day two of working through the list of planned strikes, sir. Primarily in Afghanistan, Syria, Iran, and Yemen.” He spent the next few minutes giving his commander in chief a quick rundown. “In all, forty-three additional known terrorist strongholds are to be hit, plus Mr. Prost has requestedthat we add the military garrison at Zahedan International Airport in Iran to the list for good measure.”
   Macklin turned to his DNI.“I thought we were limiting the strikes to known terrorist enclaves.”
   Prost nodded in acknowledgment.“That was our intention, but when they went after our pilot and the CSAR helo, it seemed appropriate that we respond. There are eighteen MiG-29s and twelve Mirage F1s on that base. The cost of harboring terrorists…”
   “Well, when you put it that way,” Macklin said, pointing the glasses at Blevins. “What’s the word on our fleet?”
   “We’re keepingLincoln andVinson in the Mediterranean and the Arabian Sea respectively.Stennis is leaving Singapore as we speak and will head out to cover the South China Sea, while we stretch outRoosevelt’s deployment in the Sea of Japan another month untilReagan replaces it out of San Diego. Although there’s a focus on the Gulf, we still need a strong presence in North Korea, and now the strait.”
   “The strait?” Macklin said, frowning. “That’s… new. What’s going on?”
   Blevins said,“Our satellites are picking up increased troop deployments along the coast, from Fuzhou to Guangzhou.” He produced a tablet computer and passed it to Macklin.
   Balancing his glasses on the tip of his nose, he browsed through the satellite images for a minute or so. Then, looking at Prost over the glasses, asked,“What’s Xi up to? I just spoke to the man, and all was well.”
   “Well, our intel says otherwise. So, I recommend we parkStennis there for a couple of weeks.”
   Macklin stared at the images again. Sighing, he said,“Fine.”
   He returned the tablet to Blevins, who continued for another few minutes, giving him a rundown of naval activities around the world. Then Chalmers updated him on the strikes by the Air Force.
   The president finished his first cup of the day and as he stood to get a second one, he pointed his glasses at the Pentagon trio.“I’m assuming we already have proper defenses on our carriers while at port? And I meanall of them, even the ones under construction or repair or at sea trials?”
   “Yes, sir,” replied Chalmers. “Six-man crews with shoulder-launched missiles in rotating shifts, twenty-four seven, each led by an officer empowered to make calls on the spot. We won’t get hit like that again, sir. Ever.”
   “Good,” he said. He couldn’t afford to lose another carrier.
   — 10 —USS JOHN C. STENNIS (CVN 74), CHANGI NAVAL BASE, SINGAPORE
   Captain Marcus Madison, commanding officer of the Nimitz-class carrier, stared at the moon while standing on“vulture’s row,” the viewing gallery on the carrier’s island that provided a clear line of sight over flight-deck ops and the ship’s surroundings.
   Strategically located at the mouth of the Malacca Strait, Singapore’s naval base offered one of the few deep-draft piers in the Pacific Ocean big enough to berth a Nimitz-class aircraft carrier. Potential adversaries of the United States considered Changi a de facto US naval base.
   Stennis, along with her escorts and Carrier Air Wing 9 (CVW-9), were departing under the cover of darkness.
   Madison frowned. The news onTruman had stunned the American military community and had created a heightened level of concern among its personnel for their families back home.
   Stennis was escorted by five surface ships, including the Ticonderoga-class cruisers USSMobile Bay (CG 53) and USSAntietam (CG 54), and beneath the surface, USSNorth Dakota (SSN 784), a Virginia-class submarine. Together, they formed the John C. Stennis Carrier Strike Group with orders to steam directly to the Taiwan Strait, roughly 1,500 miles away. CVW-9 had eight squadrons of various aircraft, including the F/A-18E Super Hornet and the brand-new F-35C Lightning stealth multi-role fighter. In addition,Stennis hauled a contingent of nine operators from SEAL Team 2 along with their gear.
   When the carrier finally moved away from the pier, a Singaporean anti-submarine patrol vessel and a missile corvette accompanied it to the edge of the harbor. Stars filled the sky above.
   A deep voice announced flight quarters. It was time to form a protective layer over the carrier strike group. Minutes later, a Seahawk plane-guard rescue helicopter settled into position on the port side of the island, while an SH-60F anti-submarine warfare (ASW) helicopter lifted off the flight deck and made a sweep around the carrier.
   The flight-deck personnel were busy preparing to launch Super Hornets from the Strike Fighter Squadron VFA-14“Tophatters” for CAP duty. The various escort ships, some still rendezvousing withStennis, were taking up station around it. And just below the surface,North Dakota maneuvered into position to flank the carrier on starboard.
   Despite the circumstances, Madison thought it was a beautiful night to head out to sea.SUBMARINEK-43, OUTSIDE CHANGI NAVAL BASE, SINGAPORE
   Originally built for a South American republic,K-43, one of the new generation of German Type 212A— class attack submarines, had secretly changed hands three times. First to a drug cartel interested in using it to move its product from Central America to points north, and then to an arms dealer able to provide the cartel with something it wanted more than a sub: M47 Dragon shoulder-fired anti-tank weapons. Then to Omar Al Saud for two hundred million euros.
   The revolutionary air-independent, 187-foot Siemens-Permasyn-powered submarine could remain submerged and totally quiet for up to three weeks. High-grade austenitic stainless steel made the pressure hull virtually nonmagnetic.
   Hundreds of special items aboard the boat were made as nonmagnetic as possible. Every detail had been considered in making the submarine the quietest hunter-killer in the ocean.
   Anti-submarine aircraft and helicopters using infrared, acoustic, dipping sonar, sonobuoys, or magnetic-detection devices would have a difficult time sensing the latest in ultra-quiet diesel boats. Even more true if the Type 212A rested on the bottom of a shallow sea, quietly, as it did tonight.
   With a submerged range of more than three thousand nautical miles, the 212A gave developing countries a first world military capability on a third world budget. An integrated command control, navigation, and weapons system allowed automated operations. With a submerged speed of twenty knots, the boat was propelled by one finely machined seven-bladed screw.
   The submarine had been equipped with six forward torpedo tubes, operated with a noiseless water-ram hydraulic expulsion system, and carried a maximum load of a dozen torpedoes. The introduction of the submarine in mid-2003 had forced the world’s naval experts to reconsider the threat posed by this new breed of silent boats, often referred to as “stealth” submarines.
   In November 2013, a Type 212A Submarine,U-32 from theDeutsche Marine, on the way to participate in exercises with the US Navy, got through all of the defenses of a US Navy strike group completely unseen, and even shot green simulation torpedoes at the carrier. The daring feat opened eyes at the highest levels of the US government.
   K-43’s skipper, Captain Yuri Sergeyev, formerly of the Soviet Navy, stood in the crimson twilight of the control room thinking about that German captain. He wondered if the captain had been proud… or if he’d realized that he’d just proven the threat the Type 212A presented.
   The Type 212A submarine normally operated with a crew of twenty-four, but Sergeyev had only fourteen, all veterans multi-rated in various duties and responsibilities. Nine of the men, including himself, could handle five or more billets. Eleven of the men had previously served under Sergeyev.
   Gone were the days of the politically correct titles of comrade captain or comrade political officer. Only Sergeyev had a formal rank: captain. The rest of the men were considered an integral team and were referred to by name rather than rank.
   Along with the Russian naval fleet, Sergeyev had fallen on hard times. With political and economic problems plaguing the Russian Federation, their submarines had been deteriorating at an alarming rate. Few were able to deploy due to a lack of trained crews and funds for fuel and provisions. Preventive maintenance on the boats had waned to nonexistent. Many subs had been abandoned when their systems had failed. Some of them had been scuttled to defer the operating funds to seaworthy vessels.
   Sergeyev, once a rising star in the Soviet Navy, had become disillusioned by the corruption and dereliction he saw in the new Russian Navy and had finally given up. Eventually, he had found work on fishing boats from Canada to South America and had moved his family to a small apartment in Buenos Aires, Argentina. When he first had heard about the submarine position from a former shipmate, he had thought it was a prank. However, when theMoscow Times newspaper advertisement had arrived from a close friend in Novgorod, Sergeyev had become cautiously excited.
   A European company had been searching for an experienced captain for a commercial submarine operation. Sergeyev had sent a résumé to a post office box in Geneva and, nine days later, had flown to Munich, Germany, and checked into the Hotel Bayerischer Hof, where he’d met face-to-face with Omar Al Saud.
   Soon after, he had reported to a remote and private facility nineteen miles north of Coquimbo, Chile, for training in the Type 212A. Aside from picking a crew, Sergeyev’s first order of business had been the installation of a pair of ZOKA Aselsan acoustic torpedo countermeasure decoy modules. The Turkish-made units had been built into the hull on the aft starboard and port sides. No way would he take on the entire United States Pacific Fleet without some measure of evasive protection.
   His crew grew restless, Sergeyev knew. They had been waiting more than a week for the American carrier to get under way, but, until it did, his orders were brutally clear: not a sound.
   His eyes drifted from the quiet activity in the control room to the sonar station before he decided to head back to his stateroom. If there was one thing the veteran submariner had learned after a lifetime of underwater deployments, it was to appreciate the calm before the storm.* * *
   Leonod Popov, a former warrant officer in the Soviet Navy andK-43’s sonar-watch supervisor, yawned as he walked to the sonar station at the far end of the control room. He had not slept well for the past six nights. Like most of the crew, Popov had never stalked a ship with the intention of sinking it, much less one of the jewels of the US Navy.
   Settling behind his console, he rubbed his eyes and scratched his shaved head. Pulling on a set of earphones, he leaned back, hands on his lap, fingers crossed, eyes closed, listening.
   Popov’s head bobbed as he fought his exhaustion. He dozed off for a moment, but he startled awake when a familiar sound filled his earphones.A solid contact and very close.
   The escort ship’s propellers were mixed, including that of a Virginia-class submarine running alongside the carrier’s starboard. But the cavitation fromStennis was obvious, deep and powerful.
   Popov sat up, waved over another sailor, and told him to monitor the sonar equipment while he went to advise the skipper.
   Dropping one level below the control room, he found Captain Sergeyev lying on the bunk in his cramped quarters reading one of his wine magazines. It was no secret that the captain had purchased a small plot of land north of Coquimbo that he intended to turn into a vineyard, hoping to join the thriving Chilean wine industry.
   Popov knocked on the bulkhead adjacent to the curtain that hung in the doorway to the stateroom.
   “Enter,” Sergeyev said firmly. A stocky man with a full head of grayish hair and a short beard that was nearly white, his appearance contrasted sharply with Popov’s. His blue eyes, as cold as a Russian winter, slowly drifted from the journal to meet his officer’s excited gaze.
   “Cap’n, we have a positive sonar contact on the boat. The American carrier and her escorts are leaving port.”
   “About time.” Sergeyev tossed the magazine, swung his legs over the side of his bunk, and sat up. “Have the crew man their battle stations. But Leonod… not a sound. Complete silence,da?”
   “Battle stations and quietly. Aye, Cap’n.”
   Popov headed back up and whispered the order to the crew.* * *
   A few minutes later, Sergeyev stepped into the control room and casually inspected the array of LCD panels, gauges, and indicator lights.
   “Sonar, Conn,” he said in an even voice. “Range and bearing?”
   Sergeyev had long adopted the tranquil, easygoing demeanor of his first commanding officer and mentor, Captain Vasili Arkhipov, the man credited by historians for casting the single vote that had prevented World War III during the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1963. As second in command aboard the Foxtrot-class submarineB-59, Arkhipov had calmly voted against launching a nuclear-tipped torpedo against American navy vessels, which would have likely caused a major global thermonuclear response.
   “Six thousand three hundred feet,” Popov whispered from his station. “Bearing two-six-three. A submerged Virginia-class sub is running alongside the carrier’s starboard at one hundred feet.”
   “Come to periscope depth,” the skipper ordered Anatoli Zhdanov, his designated executive officer while at battle stations. The former Soviet Navy lieutenant, who had served under Sergeyev during his last two deployments, had two degrees in engineering. Like his captain, the man had a knack for remaining calm under pressure.
   “Periscope depth,” Zhdanov replied in a confident voice.
   “Sonar, Conn,” Sergeyev said. “Give me range and bearing every thirty seconds.”
   “Range and bearing every thirty seconds, aye,” Popov confirmed. Sergeyev heard his nervousness in his voice.
   Sergeyev knew his attack procedures were unorthodox, but he had to be innovative in the confined area. His dangerous location had been necessary to take the Americans by complete surprise. The Type 212A would be firing six DM2A3 SeaHake heavyweight torpedoes at very close range. The 533 mm weapon featured an advanced, and extremely quiet, electrical propulsion system and packed a warhead of 260 kg of PBX, a polymer-bonded explosive very insensitive to accidental detonations.
   Popov relayed the bearing as Sergeyev prepared to raise the camouflaged periscope, an action that could make the submarine vulnerable to attack, but the skipper needed visual identification of his target. Working for a man like Omar Al Saud, the captain could ill afford to make a stupid mistake. Calmly he waited until the boat stabilized at a depth of forty feet.
   “Up scope,” he said quietly.
   “Up scope, aye,” Anatoli Zhdanov replied.
   The lubricated tube silently rose from its resting place. The captain reached for the two handles and swung the periscope to match the bearing to the carrier. He immediately recognized the flattop silhouette against the glow of the coastal lights.
   “Perfect.” He felt the familiar rush. “Down scope,”
   Zhdanov nodded.“Down scope, aye.”
   The periscope had been visible for less than seven seconds and at night, minimizing the risk of exposure.
   “Confirmed,” Sergeyev said without expression.
   A few of the men exchanged concerned glances. After nearly two years of training, they were about to make their first actual attack on a ship. The timing of the torpedoes would be critical given their proximity to the American carrier and especially its submarine escort.
   Sergeyev rechecked the status of the six weapons. All systems were ready for the order to fire.
   “Five thousand six hundred feet. Bearing two-six-five,” Popov reported.
   “Stand by,” Sergeyev said, running the speed, distance, and timing equation through his mind one last time. The integrated control, navigation, and weapons system had given him a solution, but Sergeyev always did the math the old-school way as a final check — another habit from Arkhipov.
   “Three thousand eight hundred feet, bearing two-six-seven,” Popov reported, wiping beads of perspiration from his head.
   Popov’s visible concern prompted Sergeyev to scan the faces of the rest of his crew, reading their expressions. He knew most of them were wondering how long he would wait to give the order. If a torpedo malfunctioned and shot out of the water, it could expose the general position of the submarine. TheVirginia-class sub plus ASW helicopters could pounce on them in under a minute.
   “Slightly under three thousand feet,” Popov updated. “Bearing two-six-eight.”
   Sergeyev waited ten seconds, deciding that the Virginia-class sub that prowled the sea between the carrier and his sub was deep enough to be out of the way.
   Then he said, as calmly as any of his prior commands,“Fire one,” and punched his stopwatch. Without a hint of a sound, the revolutionary water-ram hydraulic system released the first torpedo.
   Ten seconds passed.“Fire two.”
   Sergeyev waited seven more seconds.“Fire three.”
   The sequence continued until all six torpedoes were fired. Now it was time to slip away quietly from the carrier strike group.
   “Left full rudder,” Sergeyev ordered before glancing at his stopwatch and adding, “Ahead slow.”
   Zhdanov stared at the captain for a moment, obviously concerned by the command.
   “Left full rudder, Anatoli,” Sergeyev repeated, dropping the pitch of his voice a dash. “Ahead slow.”
   “Left full rudder, ahead slow. Aye aye, Captain.”
   Obviously confused by Sergeyev’s order, Zhdanov and the crew began glancing at each other. He let them have their moment of trepidation and just monitored his stopwatch.
   Be there, he thought.Don’t fail me.
   “Sir,” Popov announced as he removed his headset, “the American sub is starting to take evasive action.”
   Sergeyev nodded, just as the first torpedo hit the bow ofStennis. The blast created an explosion that reverberated throughK-43. Another nerve-shattering detonation followed ten seconds later, and third and fourth blasts right after.
   Sergeyev slipped the stopwatch into his pocket.“Rudder amidships, ahead one-third.”
   The fifth explosion, a double shock, seemed more powerful, the acoustic energy making the overheads and the screen flicker for a moment.
   Sergeyev caught the eye of his sonarman, who quickly pressed one headphone to his ear, then said,“I think the fifth one struck the sub, the Virginia class. It’s breaking up.”
   “Unfortunately, Leonod,” Sergeyev said, frowning. He had immense respect for the American submarine forces from his years in the Soviet Navy. He took no pleasure in destroying the sub.
   “Cap’n—” Zhdanov hesitated, struggling to select his words as the last torpedo struckStennis.“We’re headed directly toward the carrier pier.”
   “Gentlemen,” he finally said, looking about as wide-eyed stares converged on him, “where is the last place the Americans will look for us? Lying on the bottom near their very own pier, of course.USS JOHN C. STENNIS (CVN 74), OUTSIDE PORT OF SINGAPORE
   The first explosion below the starboard bow stunned Capt. Marcus Madison and the entire crew ofStennis, shaking the superstructure and blasting through three decks of living quarters, including the space occupied by the pilots of two fighter squadrons and the contingent of SEALs, instantly killing more than seventy men and women.
   Madison was about to ask for a damage control report when a second explosion rocked the ship.
   Surmising the carrier was setting off mines, he ordered the crew to general quarters. A klaxon began sounding through the ship as the third torpedo hit the engineering spaces, killing dozens of sailors and causing extensive damage and flooding. The crew raced to their stations: forward and up on the starboard side of the carrier; down and aft on the port side.
   Stennis went immediately to Condition One, its maximum state of readiness. Condition Zebra followed; all closures, hatches, porthole covers, doors, and valves were secured. This provided watertight integrity and sealed compartments, helping to localize flooding and control any fires.
   The shocked sailors manning the Damage Control Center fought to stabilize the carrier, trying to adjust to ever-changing conditions in the ship and giving directions to help ensure the vital systems used in flood control and firefighting stayed operational.
   The fourth torpedo penetrated one ofStennis’s large hangars belowdecks, destroying dozens of aircraft, including most of the brand-new F-35C Lightnings. More than fifty sailors died immediately and many others sustained serious injuries as seawater started flooding the compartment.
   The fifth torpedo, meant to flood the cavernous engine room, was drawn in by the increased cavitation of the Virginia-class submarine,North Dakota, as it began evasive maneuvers in the wake of the first blasts. The torpedo tore a jagged hole into the sub’s bow, detonating right next to the compartment storing its load of MK 48 torpedoes, each packing a 650-pound high-explosive warhead. The shockwave propagated along the entire boat, breaking it up into several sections, instantly killing its entire crew and kicking up a curtain of seawater a hundred feet high.
   The last torpedo detonated byStennis’s four propellers, damaging two of them, as well as one of the propeller shafts.* * *
   Capt. Madison and his crew reached a quick conclusion; since they had not encountered any mines leading to the naval base, a submarine had to be the culprit. One of the carrier’s SH-60F Seahawk ASW helicopters and a Singaporean anti-submarine patrol vessel began an immediate search for the elusive target.
   The helicopter, armed with MK 54 torpedoes, used its dipping sonar to search for the submerged enemy.
   Despite the heroic efforts of the carrier’s crew, and the expertise of the damage control repair parties, including sealing off the damaged hangar,Stennis soon took on a six-degree list to starboard.* * *
   Seven hundred yards from the carrier pier, Capt. Yuri Sergeyev breathed a sigh of relief.“Ahead slow.”
   “Ahead slow. Aye aye, Captain,” Anatoli Zhdanov repeated.
   Sergeyev patiently waited for the submarine to decelerate to minimum maneuvering speed.
   “Right full rudder,” he ordered.
   “Right full rudder,” Zhdanov replied.
   Sergeyev shook his head as the Type 212A completed 175 degrees of turn. In his heart, he knew the carrier had survived, primarily because the Virginia-class sub had absorbed the torpedo meant to flood the massive engine room.“Rudder amidships,” he said firmly. “All stop.”
   “Rudder amidships, all stop, Captain.”
   When the submarine stabilized, Sergeyev spoke in a whisper.“Put her on the bottom.”
   “On the bottom, aye, Captain,” Zhdanov said.
   Sergeyev met Popov’s gaze. “What’s the carrier doing?”
   “It’s continuing on course,” Popov answered in a disappointed voice. “We damaged it, but it isn’t sinking.”
   Disgruntled, Sergeyev said,“We did the best we could.” He turned to leave but paused and added,“Ty dolzhen gordit’sya.” You should be proud.
   “Spasibo,” Popov replied in a subdued voice.
   “Set the watch and make sure all hands get some sleep.”
   K-43 settled into the sediment, and Sergeyev retired to his small stateroom to try to get some sleep before the next storm.
   — 11 —THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   President Cord Macklin and First Lady Maria Eden-Macklin were supposed to be attending a lunch in New York as guests of honor at a special tribute to Rodgers and Hammerstein at Lincoln Center. But Macklin just couldn’t do the social thing in the wake of theTruman disaster and the wave of retaliatory strikes. So, they had flown from Camp David back to the White House.
   He was in the middle of enjoying a light lunch with Maria in the Treaty Room, the president’s private study located on the second floor near the presidential living quarters, when Hartwell Prost entered and leaned down to speak to him quietly.
   “Mr. President,” he whispered. “We just got hit again.Stennis.”
   Macklin closed his eyes.Christ Almighty.
   Taking a second to gather himself, he turned to the first lady and said in a quiet voice,“Maria, I have to—”
   “Go,” she acknowledged. “And don’t forget these,” she added, pointing at the reading glasses next to his plate.
   The president thanked her, grabbed them, and followed his DNI. Tailed by Okimoto and his detail, they went straight down to the basement Situation Room, where he sat at the head of the table and regarded the six individuals gathered there.
   General Les Chalmers sat in his usual spot immediately to the left of the president, and he was accompanied by the vice chairman and the chief of staff of the air force. Opposite sat Prost, Defense Secretary Peter Adair, and Secretary of State Brad Austin.
   Macklin immediately sensed the panic in the room and knew he needed to quickly rein them in, as they appeared ready to gallop off a cliff.
   “I got the rundown on the walk over,” he said, pointing at Prost. “So, I know the what. I would like to understand the who and then the how.”
   Everyone looked at the secretary of defense.“I really don’t have any idea whose sub it was,” Adair replied in a barely audible voice. “I can only speculate at this point. At slow speeds, the latest version of China’s Type 095 is as quiet as our Virginia-class subs. If it was stationary, lying in wait, it would have been difficult to detect. Same goes for the German Type 212A or the new Russian Yasen — class attack subs. They are all virtually impossible to find with our current ASW systems.”
   Prost turned his attention to Chalmers.“General, it seems that in the aftermath of the Cold War, our navy’s anti-submarine warfare capabilities have deteriorated. I strongly recommend you and Admiral Blevins give a high priority to reconstituting our ASW muscle.”
   Macklin tipped the glasses toward Prost.“There’ll be plenty of time for that later, Hart. Our priority now has to be ensuring it doesn’t happen again. Our naval bases need some immediate protection. Constant ASW coverage, submarine nets, whatever the chiefs decide, whatever it takes to keep our naval ports safe from attack.”
   Chalmers nodded his agreement.“I’ll contact Admiral Blevins this morning. I know he’s already working the problem.”
   Pete Adair eyed the general.“Whatever he needs.”
   “Yes, sir,” Chalmers said in a tight voice.
   Macklin sat back, thinking. WithTruman andStennis disabled, it left the United States with just four operational carriers,Vinson in the Gulf,Lincoln in the Mediterranean,Roosevelt in the Sea of Japan, andReagan still at port in San Diego. To make matters worse, the ability to deploy a combination of carrier strike groups and expeditionary strike groups had been crippled. The global balance of power was in dire jeopardy, leaving the door open for the Chinese, North Koreans, Iranians, or even the Russians to contemplate actions that would normally have been considered grossly irresponsible, if not suicide. The Russians had seized Crimea when the US had been at full strength. Macklin feared what they might do now.
   After a long pause, Macklin broke the silence.“Our national prestige has taken a heavy toll. Two of our crucial assets have been damaged and one of our new subs destroyed — along with hundreds of trained navy personnel. Our ability to surge carrier strike groups is jeopardized. That could invite all kinds of mischief, especially from Beijing, Moscow, Tehran, and Pyongyang.”
   The president cleared his throat.“In two days, Brad is going to speak at the UN. His speech will leave no doubt of our resolve. However, we have to be able and willing to put up… or shut up.”
   Prost spoke up.“Mr. President, in the past twenty-four hours we’ve had increased chatter from the Russian Federation, North Korea, Iran, and China — especially China. They’re continuing to amass amphibious assault ships and fighter aircraft directly across from Taiwan and—”
   “Fucking Xi,” Macklin hissed under his breath, tossing the glasses on the table. “What’s the little bastard up to?”
   Prost raised his eyebrows, and everyone else’s eyes widened.
   Taking a deep breath, Macklin said,“Go on, Hart.”
   “Yes, sir. I was going to add that Beijing has deployed its brand-new Type 096 ballistic missile submarine to the strait out of Shanghai. That sub is equivalent to our Ohio-class subs and carries twenty-four JL-2 long-range missiles, each capable of deploying up to four independent nuclear warheads. On top of that, their older Type 094 ballistic subs — five of them — are roaming somewhere near their Yulin Naval Base in Hainan Island, five hundred miles southwest of Taiwan. They are close enough to be a pain in our ass. Those carry sixteen JL-2s each.”
   Macklin frowned at the confusing naming convention. The Types 094 and 096 were ballistic missile subs. The 095 was an attack sub, equivalent to the Virginia class. But all were nuclear powered.
   Stress showing in his voice, Prost continued.“Those JL-2s have the ability to hit targets 7,400 miles away. That means they can patrol northeast of the Kuril Islands and strike three-quarters of the United States. If they advanced across the international date line, they could hit all fifty states.”
   Pete Adair and Les Chalmers exchanged concerned glances.
   Staring into Macklin’s eyes, Prost continued in a level voice. “Mr. President, the missiles contain state-of-the-art guidance and warhead technology stolen from US military contractors. They are very reliable and accurate.”
   “Your recommendation?” the president queried.
   “Same as before: We still need to move a carrier strike group to the strait ASAP to send a clear military signal to Beijing. Then you need to get on the horn with President Jiechi.”
   Adair almost jumped out of his chair.“Your suggestion is going to spread ourselves too thin, Hart. We have two carrier groups in the Middle East, and that’s barely enough to keep it contained. And in anticipation of possible retaliations for our recent airstrikes, the Israelis have called up two brigades of reservists and are positioning armor along their borders with Lebanon and Gaza. Our targeted strikes against terrorists in many Middle Eastern countries have soured our relationships with many of our so-called allies in the region. Although we were fully justified in our actions, the reality is that with two carriers disabled, we’re rapidly approaching a one-war-at-a-time situation.”
   “Wrong, Pete. Not when we still have the upper hand,” President Macklin flared, picking up the glasses and directing them at his secretary of defense. “It’s called boomers. That’s why we have Ohio-class ballistic missile subs in our inventory. Our situation has drastically changed since nine-eleven. I’m going to make it clear that we will use whatever it takes to prevail in any conflict. As president, I will show determination to use nukes, if necessary, to prevent or retaliate against attacks or imminent threats of WMD use. Our adversaries must believe the United States has the will to use overwhelming force, including nuclear weapons, to prevail in any scenario.”
   The blunt declaration was met with stunned silence.
   Breaking the silence in the tension-filled room, the secretary of defense spoke in measured words.“Mr. President, China is less predictable than the Soviet Union ever was. Their new president is just one guy in a sea of old-school sharks who hate our guts for upholding the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979. China’s rapid military buildup is aimed squarely at us. They have missiles capable of targeting all of our country and many of our allies. This is not the time to provoke Beijing.”
   The president sat back and took a deep breath. The TRA, which he had pretty much memorized, required the US government to make available to Taiwan defense articles and defense services in such quantities as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability. In addition, it required that Macklin inform Congress promptly of any threat to the security of the people of Taiwan, and finally it stated that the president and Congress shall determine the appropriate action by the US in response to any such danger.
   To Macklin, it pretty much meant that he had a responsibility to protect the people of Taiwan as he did the people of South Korea, Japan, and even the Philippines. And the best and most visible way to do so was by parking a carrier strike group there just as he had parkedRoosevelt and her escorts in front of the Korean Peninsula.
   The president shoved his chair back and rose to his feet. His eyes bored into Adair.“We need a strong presence in the Gulf, in the Sea of Japan,and in the Taiwan Strait. I need a defense secretary that can provide me with a recommendation to cover all three.”
   Adair’s cheeks turned red. He took a deep breath, exhaled slowly, then lifted his gaze and said, “Stennis was supposed to cover the latter, so the only option I see is to moveVinson over there ASAP, keepLincoln in the Mediterranean, andRoosevelt parked by North Korea, and useReagan as the surge. We will also have to rely on long-range strategic bombers and cruise missiles to cover the slack. In addition, I will recommend that we increase our air force assets at Bagram, Kandahar, and also at al-Udeid Air Base in Qatar. That will help offset the loss of a carrier in the region.”
   “One follow-up question, Mr. Secretary,” Prost said. “Should we keepLincoln in the Mediterranean, or move it to the Gulf or perhaps the Arabian Sea?”
   “I can answer that,” Chalmers said. “The Arabian Sea provides the most flexibility, especially since we will only have one carrier group there. We can easily hit all the usual suspects from a more centralized location.”
   “I concur with the general,” said Adair.
   “Then make it all happen,” Macklin said. “ASAP.”
   “Mr. President?” Brad Austin said, leaning forward.
   “Yes?”
   “About Hart’s suggestion that you get on the horn with President Jiechi… I have an alternative thought.”
   “Go on.”
   “You might want to consider letting me talk with the ambassador here in Washington and use him as a conduit to communicate your discontent with the military build-up.”
   “It’s more than a discontent, Brad. I’m fucking pissed off.”
   “I’ll, ah… find the right words to convey that, sir.”
   “Fine,” Macklin replied, deciding to let the secretary of state do his job. “But I’m parkingVinson right in front of their lying asses, and I’m ready to take them head-on. Make sure that message is also…conveyed.”
   — 12 —SANTO ERASMUS, NINETY MILES WEST OF LISBON, PORTUGAL
   Javier Ibarra appreciated the mild sea and clear weather of the unseasonably warm and breezy October day. It made for a smooth start of his new contract.
   Sitting at the helm of the seventy-eight-foot-long vessel, he idled the twin Cummins diesels, while his veteran crew of three worked the furling main, genoa, and mizzen sails, which blossomed and snapped as they caught the westerly winds.
   Shipbuilder to the rich and famous for more than a century, Cheoy Lee Shipyards were renowned for their quality motorsailers. They had the range and seakeeping ability to make extended journeys with little or no support. And Ibarra’sErasmus was no exception. But more important to the master smuggler was the spacious yacht’s ability to haul secret cargo.
   He felt the familiar tug as the 145,000-pound yacht accelerated to twenty-one knots under the power of 2,300 square feet of sails, its hull slicing through gentle waves.
   Ibarra shut off the diesels and left the generator running to power the vessel’s navigation systems as well as its array of creature comforts, including the climate-controlled bridge, cabins, and its well-stocked galley and main salon amidships. An electric cable also ran into the battery compartment of a twenty-three-foot Vantage Boston Whaler secured to the forward deck,next its hoisting crane, keeping it fully charged in case of an emergency. Most transoceanic luxury yacht crews settled for traditional lifeboats, but Ibarra could never contemplate launching into the North Atlantic without at least some semblance of a backup that could go a few hundred miles between its integrated and auxiliary gas tanks.
   His deckhands would soon be gambling their wages playingPodrida, a popular Spanish card game, watching satellite TV, and deep-sea fishing for giant tuna to prepareMarmitako, a Basque stew made of tuna, potatoes, and onions, as well as fish croquettes, to accompany their Spanish bean stew. His men worked hard, but they also liked to play hard and eat well. Bystanders along passing vessels, including those of the US Navy and Coast Guard, would never dream that the well-tanned men fishing for sport aboard the classically beautiful motorsailer could be carrying such deadly cargo.
   They also would not believe that the easygoing, handsome, and charming Spaniard with the short, dark hair and golden skin was capable of the violence he’d committed in order to earn the trust of Omar Al Saud.
   The only son of a fisherman in the coastal town of Bilbao, deep in Spain’s Basque region along its northern coast, Ibarra had grown up among the sailors and merchants who worked the gritty factories, shipyards, and wharfs of the rugged autonomous community. He had begun accompanying his father on day trips at the age of nine, and by his seventeenth birthday, he knew every aspect of the business. It was heaven, until the day his dad had gotten caught in a North Atlantic gale and never came home. Ibarra would have been with him but had stayed home with the flu.
   Crushed at the loss but hopelessly in love with the sea, he found work wherever he could aboard coasters and river vessels and eventually joined a crusty and aging privateer named Arturo Girón, who took the young sailor under his wing. Girón taught him the extraordinarily detailed knowledge of the sea that successful drug smugglers must possess, especially of coastal areas and riverbanks.
   For nearly a decade, Ibarra had worked in Girón’s “import/export” business. A quick learner and attentive student, he had risen fast in the ranks of Girón’s smuggling operation, becoming known to buyers and sellers as both a shrewd businessman and a man of his word. He did not double-cross his partners, and they did not double-crosshim.
   Ibarra soon became Girón’s best smuggler, running drugs for nearly a decade while profiting immensely. Along the way, he became proficient with firearms and used them, especially on his trips to Turkey, Colombia, Mexico, Morocco, Russia, and Myanmar, the latter being the world’s second-largest opium producer. He finally went out on his own after his mentor’s death — six years gone now — taking over some of his routes, as well as Girón’s prized vessel,Santo Erasmus, named after one of the four people considered a patron saint of sailors. He also grew Girón’s old network of corrupt government officials significantly. It now numbered in the hundreds and included high-ranking officials from several governments, including Russia’s.
   It was through his government contacts in Saint Petersburg that he had met key officials of JSC Rosoboronexport, the official state agency for Russia’s export and import of military arms. For Ibarra, it had opened an entirely new branch of business: black-market arms dealing. With a total global market value of around $60 billion a year, it had immediately captured the smuggler’s attention. Taking advantage of his established routes and customers, he was able to enter this lucrative business sector, which now represented nearly half of his operation. His successful gun runs into troubled regions in South Asia and the Mideast had earned him a reputation that caught the attention of Omar Al Saud.
   Ibarra gazed at the sunlight playing across the water and reflecting off the motorsailer’s burnished stainless steel railings and cleats. He drew in the refreshing salty air. The stimulating scent rekindled his keen sense of adventure on the high seas. Using his custom-made sails most of the time, he could easily cross to the east coast of Venezuela, the western coast of Africa, or even the port city of Istanbul. Upon arrival, he would have plenty of fuel for the twin Cummins 220 hp diesels to navigate the intricate waterways of rivers and bays to reach his delivery zones.
   Ibarra smiled as Mario Mendoza, his first mate, stepped in the cockpit. His bronze skin was shiny with perspiration, and rivulets of sweat ran from his short, blond hair down the side of his face.
   “All done out there, Javi,” Mendoza said, removing his mirror-tint sunglasses and revealing a pair of hazel eyes. He opened the small fridge under the console, snagged a bottle of water, and asked,“¿Quieres agua fria?” Want a cold water?
   “No, gracias,” Ibarra replied as the tall native of San Sebastian, a Basque coastal town near the border with France, and former warrant officer in the Spanish Navy, sat on the long bench in front of the helm. Mendoza was as comfortable rigging a sail, repairing ropes, or navigating the motorsailer as he was handling one of the Heckler& Koch MP5 submachine guns stocked in a secret compartment beneath the main salon— along with heavier hardware. “Could you program the route?” he added.
   “Por supuesto,” Mendoza replied.Of course.
   Ibarra enabled the autopilot while Mendoza entered a course that would takeErasmus across the Atlantic to the shores of Virginia and into Chesapeake Bay, taking in at the Leeward Municipal Marina on picturesque Newport News in six days’ time. Just as ordered by Omar Al Saud…
   — 13 —USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), ARABIAN SEA
   After dropping her report on Lt. Cmdr. Vince Nova’s desk at 1500 hours, Lt. Amanda Diamante went to see Lt. Cmdr. Ed Stone, but the maintenance officer was tied up in a meeting, so she had been redirected to Stone’s right-hand man in the hangar bay. While Nova’s official report would take some time to make it up the chain of command, word had it Kowalski had already cleared her to fly again.
   She headed down to the hangar deck, located three levels below the ready room. It didn’t matter how many times she came down here, the sheer size of the cavernous space impressed her. At almost seven hundred feet long — or two-thirds the length ofVinson—and more than a hundred feet wide, and towering twenty-five feet high, it could hold all of the CVW-2 aircraft, plus seemingly endless assortments of spare parts and heavy-duty service equipment.
   Divided into four zones by massive steel sliding doors, the hangar buzzed with activity this afternoon, as maintenance crews worked around the clock to keep Carrier Air Wing 2 in business. Amanda stared at the massive isolation doors— the same ones that had allowed the crew ofStennis to contain the flooding hangar bay following that horrible torpedo attack.
   As she made her way through the cavernous place, she imagined what it must have been like for the crew aboardStennis. She had lost friends on bothTruman andStennis and struggled with mood swings from grief to anger and back again.
   All around her, maintenance crews were hard at work, tinkering, testing, and repairing dozens of jets, their wings folded up and all parked in what looked like a massive traffic jam.Organized chaos.
   She spotted Maintenance Master Chief Gino Cardona in the hangar zone closest to the stern, where the air group serviced the Super Hornets of her fighter squadron.
   Standing in his customary drill-sergeant pose, arms crossed, Cardona supervised a young sailor stenciling Amanda’s name under the forward cockpit of an F/A-18E that looked as if it had seen better days. The paint was peeling off the wingtips, and the tail was dark from a lifetime of afterburner work. Weld marks under both wings and the left side of the fuselage, like scar tissue, marked the repairs to ground fire damage. The fighter jet looked as tired and sore as Amanda felt. The ejection had really shaken her down to the bone.
   “Miss Diamante. Do you think you can hang on to this Rhino a bit longer?” Cardona asked, without looking at her as the kid balanced himself at the top of the ladder, juggling a template, a brush, and a small can of paint — hot pink.
   Seriously?
   “And you!” he screamed at the sailor, who looked as if he’d just graduated from high school. “One drop of paint on my deck and I’ll have you scrub it end to end with a damned toothbrush! You feel me, son?”
   “Yes, Master Chief!” he cried out.
   “Ran out of black paint, Master Chief?”
   The man’s mustache straightened as he grinned.
   “Looks like it’s been to hell and back,” she added.
   The smile faded, and he finally turned to her.
   “Lieutenant,” he said in a low, grumbling voice that sounded like a train leaving the station.“This Rhino here is a fine example of American aeronautical engineering.” Then as his voice incrementally grew louder, he added, “It was servicing your country while you were still in diapers!” Then he grinned again and added in a calm voice, “This particular bird served in Operations Iraqi Freedom, Enduring Freedom, Desert Strike, and Northern Watch, and operations off the Somali coast. It has unleashed violence on Taliban insurgents across Afghanistan, ISIS enclaves in northern Iraq, and even enforced the no-fly zone there.” Cardona pointed at the rows of bomb silhouettes stenciled on the nose. Lowering his voice, he added, “And it even shot down a Syrian Air Force Su-22.”
   “I never heard of that last one.”
   “Like I said, Miss Diamante. Diapers. Besides, it’s either this Rhino or the highway.”
   “Copy that,” she said.
   “And not a scratch. Clear?”
   She raised her brows and once more contemplated the peeling paint and scarred fuselage and asked,“How would you be able to tell if I scratched it?”
   Cardona groaned, but before he could reply, Amanda stretched a finger at the artwork spelling DEDDLE.
   “Dammit, boy!” he exploded. “There are threeEs inDeedle! What the hell’s wrong with you?”
   “Sorry, Master Chief!” the kid wailed before producing a rag from his back pocket to wipe off the curved section of the secondD to turn it into a bastardizedE.
   “Jesus H. Christ,” Cardona hissed at the smear job.
   “It’s all right, Master Chief,” Amanda said. “It actually goes with the whole… look.”
   Sighing, he said,“It’ll be ready for preflight at oh six hundred.”
   As she was about to leave, Amanda noticed a pair of jets in the very rear of the hangar covered with blue tarps, but she could still spot the shape of their twin tails angled outward. However, the overall length was all wrong— almost ten-feet-shorter wrong. And the wingspan was also narrower than a Super Hornet’s by almost eight feet.
   And she suddenly remembered her three-month training at Patuxent River in—
   “You’re not worthy to even look that way, Deedle!” Cardona snapped when he caught her looking.
   “But, Chief,” she said, growing excited. “Those are—”
   “Beyond-fucking-limits.”
   “But I’m certified in the Lightning, and I thought that—”
   The master chief turned back and focused his laser stare on the naval aviator almost a foot shorter than his towering frame.“Lieutenant, do you really,really think I would let you anywhere near a brand-new, one-hundred-twenty-million-dollar F-35C after what you did to my Rhino?”
   “But—”
   “Miss Diamante, maybe your preschool teacher should have explained to you that the way to get a new toy isn’t by breaking your old one.”
   “Okay, okay, I just thought—”
   “This Rhino here is your new bird,” Cardona interrupted, his right index finger pointed at the weathered jet as the sailor finished the first DEEDLE with the smudgedE and added a hyphen before starting on the second one.“If you have any issues with that, by all means feel free to take it up your chain of command.” Grinning, he added, “And please, do let me know how that works out for you.”
   Amanda promptly retreated, letting Cardona redirect his energy back at the young sailor. She could still hear him screaming over the noisy hangar as she ducked through a bulkhead door and headed up to the ready room.
   She walked down a series of hallways and climbed ladders between levels, always yielding to senior officers coming in the opposite direction. She also kept to the right or left side of the tape pasted down the middle of passageways or hatchways where sailors cleaned and waxed the floors. Work was always done on one half at a time to keep the walkways open.
   Her aching body had a craving for a latte, but when she finally made it to the 03 Level and walked into the ready room, she found Mullet Malloy sitting across from a very somber-looking Ricky Ricardo.
   “Hey, Ricky,” she said, “guess what I found down at the hangars when I—”
   “Not now, Deedle,” Malloy said, shaking his head. His sandy hair fell over his brow and he unconsciously pushed it back. Ricardo didn’t even look up.
   “What’s going on?” she said.
   “Our boy just got dumped.” Then lowering his voice, he whispered, “Via Facebook.”
   “You know, I can hear you, Mullet,” Ricardo mumbled.
   “Jessie broke off the engagement?” Amanda asked, sitting down next to Ricardo.
   “Worse, actually,” Malloy decided to answer. “An old academy buddy of ours in Los Angeles posted video of some Charger’s pool party… and there she was, dancing around in a bikini, twerking with some linebacker, who then picked her up over his shoulder and carried her inside a cabana. No imagination required to know what happened next. When Ricky called her on the sat phone, she hung up, unfriended him, and changed her status to single.”
   “That’s cold, man,” she said, sitting next to him and placing an arm over his shoulders. “You’re out here fighting for your country, and she’s—”
   “Doing the football team?” Malloy offered, rolling his eyes.
   “Seriously, man?” Ricardo mumbled, shaking his head.
   Amanda burned Malloy with her stare, then said,“Ricky… I’m so sorry.”
   Ricardo sat, shaking his head.“I just can’t understand it.”
   “Well, screw her,” Malloy said. “We’re here for you, buddy.”
   “That’s right. And better you found out now than after you’re married with kids,” Amanda said. “Besides, we’re the only family you need.”
   As Ricardo sat there, still shaking his head in denial, their commander, Dover Kowalski, walked in.
   “What the hell’s going on? Don’t you three have someplace better to be?” He pointed at the flight schedule board, where Amanda noticed to her delight that it once again included her for a CAP mission with Ricky the following morning. But then she frowned when she saw that her Greenie Board GPA had plummeted after getting a big fat zero for failing to bring back her bird.
   Malloy said,“Sorry, Skipper. Ricky here just found out his fiancée has been banging some linebacker from the Chargers.”
   “C’mon, man!” Ricardo snapped. “What’s wrong with you?”
   Kowalski blinked.
   “Just shut it, Mullet!” Amanda snapped.
   “Ricky,” Kowalski finally said. “I’m really sorry.”
   Ricardo glared at Malloy, then said,“Thank you, sir. I—”
   “Don’t thank me, son,” Kowalski said. “You get over this shit right here, right now. In case you haven’t been keeping up with world events, we’re no longer fighting ragheads. We’re headed at flank speed for the Taiwan Strait. In three days, we’ll be within pissing distance from hundreds of MiGs, Sukhois, and cruise missiles, plus their subs, destroyers, and even a damned aircraft carrier. That means we have to pull together as a fighter squadron, with everyone’s head in the game, a hundred percent. You all get me?”
   “Yes, sir!” the three pilots replied in unison. Kowalski turned on his heel and walked out.ZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   “We will never again have such an opportunity,” General Deng Xiangsui said. “The time has finally come to take back what rightfully belongs to our people.”
   President Xi Jiechi stood in his office overlooking the Central Sea, the name given to one of the two lakes in the gardens of the Imperial City adjacent to the vast Forbidden City. Along with the second lake, the Southern Sea, the Zhongnanhai complex with its array of palace-like buildings, pristine lakes, and manicured gardens served as the central headquarters for the Communist Party of China, the State Council, and the office of the president of the PRC. In fact, the termZhongnanhai was used to refer to President Jiechi and his senior party officials just as the termWhite House referred to the American president and his cabinet.
   Except that Mac controls his cabinet, Jiechi thought.I have to coexist with the PSC.
   The Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China represented the highest law of the land. The PSC had placed him in Zhongnanhai and, just as easily, it could have him removed from office— even dragged to the nearest rice paddy and shot in the head. All it took was a majority vote. And at the center of this iron-gripped ruling body of nine stood the man he loved like a father.
   But that didn’t mean Jiechi agreed with some of the general’s views, which dated back to the days of Chairman Mao Zedong. Although Deng had been responsible for the modernization of the PLA, including the creation and deployment of its aircraft carrier and its ballistic missile submarine programs — as well as China’s revolutionary ground-based satellite-killer laser system — it was time for him to retire.
   Easier said than done.
   Jiechi silently mused at another crucial difference between America and China. As commander in chief, President Macklin could replace his generals and cabinet members at will. Jiechi, on the other hand, held only the paper title of“chairman” of the Central Military Committee, which in theory meant he commanded all branches of the military. True control of the PLA, however, rested in the wrinkled hands of the vice chairman and supreme military commander standing behind him, waiting for a response.
   The president, arms behind his back, continued contemplating the mirror-smooth lake, as well as Deng’s comment, before turning around and facing the man who had raised him.
   “Zhǎng zhě,” he said, using the Chinese phrase for father figure.“There is no denying that under your leadership, the PLA has made great strides toward becoming a world power. But still…”
   “What troubles you?”
   Exhaling heavily, he said,“The math.”
   Deng approached his protégé and patted him on the shoulder. “What math?”
   “We have one operational aircraft carrier,” Jiechi said, referring toLiaoning, a Type 001A carrier China had purchased from Russia.“And it’s roughly half the tonnage of a Nimitz-class. The Americans have ten Nimitz-class carriers and are about to deploy their first Ford-class supercarrier. While I recognize — and am truly appalled — that terrorists have managed to disable two of them, that still leaves them with eight Nimitz class and one Ford class.”
   Jiechi was aware of the developments of a Type 002 and a Type 003 carrier, the latter to compete with the Ford class. However, those vessels, currently under construction at the Jiangnan Shipyard in Shanghai, were not scheduled for completion for another three years.
   “Technically they only have four carriers in combat-ready status,” Deng said. “Vinson, Roosevelt, Reagan, andLincoln. The rest are either in repair or still undergoing sea trials. And withStennis out of commission, there are none near the strait at the moment.”
   “In addition,” Jiechi continued, ignoring him. “We only have five Type 094 ballistic missile submarines, each armed with twelve JL-2 ballistic missiles, and each capable of deploying up to four nuclear warheads. Plus, our single brand-new Type 096 that can carry twenty-four JL-2s. The Americans have fourteen Ohio-class subs, each armed with twenty-four Trident missiles, and each capable of deploying up to twelve independent nuclear warheads. It is this math,Zhǎng zhě, that troubles me.”
   Deng slowly nodded before speaking in his softer, almost endearing tone that he reserved for his most intimate father-son chats.“When Chairman Mao founded the Communist Party of China and took on Sun Yat-sen and his ruling Kuomintang in 1945, he did it with just over a million men and women — mostly peasants. At the time, Yat-sen had more than four million well-armed and battle-hardened soldiers. By 1949, Chairman Mao had driven the Kuomintang out of mainland China, forcing them to retreat to Taiwan. Your father was just eleven years old. Still, along with others of our generation, myself included, he was moved by the change and vowed to continue the fight for the complete and unconditional unification that our beloved chairman started.
   “Unfortunately, every time we attempted to reclaim the land that is rightfully ours, even as far back as 1950, the Americans intervened with their carrier forces.”
   He paused and once more placed a hand on Jiechi’s shoulder, his eyes filling. “Your father died in one of those interventions, Xi, killed by a weapon given to the Kuomintang by the Americans.”
   He had, of course, heard the story before.“What are you suggesting?”
   “Strength, my beloved Xi. I am strongly suggesting that you display the same strength of Chairman Mao — as well as every successive leader that has occupied the seat of power under your command. It is crucial that senior party members — and the Americans — see the fire in your belly, and”—the aging general tightened his hands— “the steel in your fists, by taking advantage of this unique moment of weakness in the American navy. Remember, every time you walk away from the trials of life because of the fear of failure, a part of you dies. Don’t walk away from this trial, my son. Rather, face it with overwhelming strength.”
   Jiechi had heard those words before, when scaling the political mountain that had placed him in Zhongnanhai.
   “And how do you recommend I show this… strength?”
   Deng’s heavily lined face tightened. “By asking yourself, ‘How would Chairman Mao have handled this?’”
   Jiechi inhaled deeply.“And how,Zhǎng zhě? How would Chairman Mao have handled this… opportunity?”
   Without hesitation, Deng said,“By testing the American resolve.”SUEZ CANAL, EGYPT
   Considered one of the most important waterways in the world, the Suez Canal ran north to south across the Isthmus of Suez in northeastern Egypt. The canal connected the Mediterranean Sea at Port Said with the Gulf of Suez, an arm of the Red Sea.
   The busy canal provided a critical shortcut for merchant ships operating between American and European ports and those in southern Asia, Oceania, and eastern Africa.
   Suezmax was a naval-architecture term for the largest ship capable of transiting the narrow canal. The typical deadweight of a Suezmax tanker ship was 240,000 tons with a beam of 164 feet and a draft of sixty-six feet. In addition, all ships had to have a maximum air draft of 223 feet to clear the 230-foot-high Suez Canal Bridge. The normal transit time averaged fourteen to sixteen hours.
   Captain Marvin Bennett, the skipper of the aircraft carrier USSAbraham Lincoln (CVN 72) cursed under his breath as the convoy slowly made its way down the narrow canal. With a beam of 134 feet at the waterline widening to 252 feet at the flight-deck level, someone standing at the edge of the flight deck would look straight down onto the roads flanking the canal.
   A missile cruiser and a destroyer led the way, followed byLincoln, a Virginia-class submarine, another missile cruiser, a frigate, and two resupply ships.
   Standing on vulture’s row, Bennett looked down at the road alongside the edge of the canal, where a small army dispatched by the Egyptian government to protect the convoy followed the ships.
   And Bennett appreciated the effort, but the skipper ofLincoln longed for the safety of the open sea, counting down the minutes until he cleared this damn waterway.BORG EL ARAB INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, EGYPT
   Once a small and fairly remote airport, Borg El Arab had become the principal airport for Alexandria after the closure of the Alexandria International Airport in 2011. Located twenty-five miles south of the legendary coastal city, it provided services for more than a dozen airlines with flights coming from as far away as Turkey, Kuwait, and Syria.
   Tariq al-Kayyam taxied a KC-130H Hercules aerial refueling tanker to the designated parking spot on the Aswan airport ramp, next to another Hercules flown by his fellow pilot, Wassim Nuwas. Purchased from the nearly bankrupt Brazilian government, both of the massive aircraft were now painted in the colors of a regional air-cargo company.
   The standard aircraft fuel tanks were full, and the portable 3,600-gallon stainless steel tank in the cargo compartment had been filled to capacity with jet fuel.
   Born in Yarmouk Camp in Damascus, Syria, the nineteen-year-old Tariq had grown up in better conditions than many refugees in the Middle East. One of the more than hundred thousand“forgotten Palestinians” ignored by the international media because they did not live under Israeli “occupation,” he had been educated in UNRWA schools. His father had worked at a local hospital; his mother had died in childbirth.
   Though known as a“camp,” Yarmouk had schools, hospitals, and even internet cafés. During the Syrian Civil War, it had become the scene of intense fighting between the Free Syrian Army and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, backed by Syrian Army forces. Thousands of residents hadfled the fighting. Eventually, the Syrian Army had besieged the camp, turning it into an utter hellhole.
   When ISIS forces entered the camp, Tariq had finally fled to Lebanon, where he’d met dozens of other young men like himself, homeless, without a country, without a purpose, and eager for direction. One of these other men had been Wassim Nuwas, an Iraqi-born twenty-two-year-old who had also fled ISIS. The two men had met in a mosque favored by such angry, disaffected young men as they. Then came a well-dressed British man, who offered them a unique opportunity to vent their anger.
   He had given them money, papers, and instructions to find passage on a cargo flight from Beirut to Cairo, and then to Borg El Arab to begin their training. Under the close tutelage of a Nigerian instructor pilot, they had received thirty-two hours of dual basic flight training in a Cessna 172, before transitioning to the Hercules. Tariq and Wassim had flown an additional fifteen hours and made eleven takeoffs but no landings in the big turboprops.
   After receiving permission to taxi, Tariq steered behind an EgyptAir Boeing 737–800 headed for Runway One-Four. He watched the airliner take off and climb into the hazy gray sky. Cleared for takeoff, he lined up the big KC-130H with the runway and slowly added power to the four powerful Allison engines, feeling the adrenaline surge in his body. Today, he flew solo in the Hercules for the first time. His heart pounded wildly as anxiety filled him, but he managed to take off without incident, and started a slow climb to one thousand feet.
   As the minutes passed, a sense of peacefulness descended over him. He followed the Mediterranean coast until reaching the northern end of the canal at Port Said, just as he had practiced with his instructor. Turning south, he followed the crowded waterway until he could see the US Navy warships just beyond the horizon.
   He frowned, wishing he had been given permission to strike the carrier, but his handler had been adamant he must keep clear of the Americans, who would likely be on high alert.
   Rolling to a southeasterly course, Tariq tried to give the carrier group a wide berth, before turning back to the canal at a point almost ten miles ahead of the American fleet. As he approached it, he saw a pair of fighter jets that had been circling over the carrier suddenly turning toward him.
   Panicking, he pushed full throttle and pointed the plane at the closest target, a small merchant vessel— maybe a hundred feet long — less than a half mile away.
   It will have to do, he thought, angry that he couldn’t go after the massive oil tankers a few miles farther south, but he couldn’t risk being shot down.
   Lowering the nose, he entered a shallow dive as the jets approached. With the four powerful Allison turboprop engines producing more than 4,900 shaft horsepower each, the KC-130H accelerated to four hundred miles per hour as the bridge of the ship filled his windscreen.* * *
   The heavy plane vanished in a horrendous explosion that reverberated for miles and tore through the small ship with enough force to drive the keel three feet into the bottom of the canal. Debris rained down in a quarter-mile radius around the smoking wreckage, as southbound traffic began stopping in place.* * *
   Captain Bennett ordered his crew to general quarters only seconds after the explosion. Thick black smoke billowed skyward, but well ahead of his position. The other navy ships also went to general quarters, and all traffic stopped.
   A pair of F/A-18Es reported having spotted a Hercules turboprop in its final suicide dive. The fighters, accompanied by another pair of Super Hornets that had been refueling from a KC-135 Stratotanker, scrambled into two sections flying CAP over the carrier searching for other rogue planes.
   “What a damned mess,” Bennett mumbled before starting to make calls to back out of the canal and return to the Mediterranean.* * *
   Wassim saw the column of black smoke rising in the distance as he began looking for a target north of the US Navy ships but far away enough not to be an immediate threat.
   Spotting a large petroleum tanker almost fifteen miles north of the convoy, he added full power to the straining engines and aimed for it, making minor corrections all the way down.
   As the long deck of the tanker filled his windscreen, Wassim closed his eyes in prayer.
   — 14 —THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   President Cord Macklin felt he had lost control. Each successful attack made the United States appear weaker, less able to defend herself. If the trend continued without a meaningful response from the United States, the enemies of America would take advantage. They would create a maelstrom of death and destruction both domestically and internationally that had the potential to cripple the ability of the US to respond to larger threats, such as a Chinese attack on Taiwan or a North Korean attack on South Korea, as well as strike fear into the world stock markets.
   Macklin felt compelled to demonstrate his resolve and take control of this dire situation.
   The Dow had lost 15 percent of its value since the attack onTruman andStennis. And nowLincoln had been trapped in the Suez Canal by two kamikaze attacks.
   At least the carrier hadn’t been hit. Still, he had to find a way to get that canal cleared asVinson was already steaming at flank speed toward the Taiwan Strait.
   Reading glasses in hand, he stood at the head of the conference table in the Situation Room. In front of him sat the usual suspects in their usual seats. They were creatures of habit. The brass sat to the left of him and the civilians to the right. The sight reminded him of the band Stealers Wheel’s pop hit “Stuck in the Middle with You,” which had been popular when he flew Thuds in Vietnam. Back then, the powers that be had thrown him into the middle of a no-win war, and now he was the one doing precisely that to his troops, placing them in unwinnable situations.
   “Gentlemen,” he finally said, “I’m starting to feel like a wounded elephant in the middle of a pack of hungry lions. The terrorists smell blood, and they sense the absolute fear that’s permeating our country. We, as a nation, have to be prepared to go on the offense and take the fight to them.”
   He picked up his glasses and then checked himself, waiting to see who would speak first.
   “President Macklin,” Hartwell Prost said right away. “We’ve seen suicide attacks since the early eighties, but this time around they’ve incorporated a strategic component to them. This isn’t just some guy in a vest blowing up a restaurant or beheading someone on YouTube, or even flying a plane into a building. They’ve stepped up their game to attack our very ability to counterattack by disabling our carriers, plus none of the usual suspects has claimed responsibility, making it harder to knowwhere to counterattack. We’re dealing with a new kind of very focused, covert, andstrategic terrorism, and that takes this to another level. We can’t afford to follow the traditional playbook anymore. They’ve changed their rules and that means we have to change ours.”
   An awkward silence settled over the room.
   “What are you suggesting?” the president asked.
   The DNI sat forward and put his arms on the table, settling in before speaking.“We know which countries are either sponsoring terrorism or harboring terrorists. Our actions to date have been surgical strikes aimed at terrorist training camps and the like. But we’ve remained clear of damaging any nation’s infrastructure or military installations, aside from the isolated strike at Zahedan. You put the world on notice during your address to the nation, Mr. President. You said there would be no exceptions. It’s time we made good on that promise.”
   Another moment of silence followed.
   Sitting forward, a look of determination on his face, General Les Chalmers spoke.“I totally agree. Mr. Prost is absolutely correct. It’s past time to go on offense and stop this ongoing craziness. We’re being completely reactive and are losing this war.”
   At this, Secretary of State Brad Austin sat forward.“Mr. President, gentlemen, I also agree that we are being completely reactive. But we face the same challenges that Bush faced after nine-eleven: a lack of targets. Sure, we can hit Iran with all we have, but that may not stop these attacks. So maybe we hit someone else. The question we have to answer is ‘How far are we willing to go?’ This can quickly turn into a game of Whac-A-Mole that we can’t win. In many ways, it already has.”
   Clearly troubled and angry, Macklin leaned back in his chair for a few moments.“I know you’re right,” he said with a heavy sigh, then added, “but I also know we can’t donothing. Perhaps we can at least make the damn mole afraid to stick his head out long enough to get our carriers repaired and our defenses strengthened.”
   The president turned to Defense Secretary Adair.“Pete, I think we need to go to DEFCON Two.”
   The blood drained from the secretary of defense’s face.
   Macklin then looked at Chalmers and added,“Les, use all the assets you need.” He paused. “I want our enemies to carefully know thatall potential consequences are on the table.
   “Yes, sir,” Chalmers replied, a look of grim determination on his face. The president of the United States had just directed the armed forces to go to their second-highest state of readiness, a state not seen since the beginning of the Gulf War in 1991, as well as the potential use of nuclear weapons, something no president had done since the sixties.
   “Hart,” the president continued, “I want you to coordinate with British and Israeli intelligence. See if they can’t get a handle on the origins of these terrorists. If they have Iranian or Saudi backing, I want to know. Also, let’s get the secretary of energy on the phone. I want an immediate status report on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. With the Suez Canal blocked and the potential that we may need to hit one or more of the oil producers in the Middle East, we are in real danger of a full-blown oil shortage.”
   Just then, an aide whispered something to Secretary of State Brad Austin, who looked at Macklin.
   “Brad?”
   “Time for our call with the Egyptian president.”
   “Right,” he said, standing, which prompted everyone to stand. “Need to go see about getting a canal cleared.”
   Prost caught up to them in the hallway on the way to the elevator.
   “Hart?” he said, regarding his DNI over the rim of his glasses. “Something you wish to add?”
   “Yes, sir. As unfortunate as this situation is, I see it as a huge opportunity.”
   “What do you mean?”
   “Lincoln’s trapped, sir, and if I were the terrorist mastermind behind these attacks, I would be trying to figure out a way to take another shot before the canal is cleared.”
   Slowly Macklin removed his reading glasses, folded them, and asked,“You’re telling me you want to use a six-billion-dollar carrier as… bait?”
   Prost nodded.SUBMARINEK-43, CHANGI NAVAL BASE, SINGAPORE
   Capt. Yuri Sergeyev had waited almost two days before getting under way in the midnight hour. He had held out as long as he felt prudent, while still leaving in time to make his rendezvous with a supply ship in the South China Sea in two days.K-43 would take on fuel, fresh food, and six torpedoes to replenish the ones fired atStennis.
   They had spent the time on the bottom of the pier ignorant of what was happening on the surface. Leonod Popov had listened to the passive sonar and reported multiple ships and small craft moving on the surface, but the cacophony of sounds in the water made it impossible to know more. He’d imagined helicopters dropping their arrays of sonar buoys into the water, looking forK-43, but Sergeyev knew that all of the activity on the surface would hamper any attempt to detect them.
   “Ahead slow,” Sergeyev said in a quiet voice.
   “Ahead slow, Cap’n,” Anatoli Zhdanov replied.
   Nearing open water, Sergeyev wanted to see what might be lurking on the surface.“Come to periscope depth.”
   “Periscope depth, aye.”
   Sergeyev waited until the submarine stabilized at a depth of forty feet before he said,“All stop.”
   “All stop, aye.”
   Allowing the submarine to slow before raising the periscope minimized the risk of a“feather,” the small wake that would be easy to detect on the surface.
   Sergeyev made a quick visual sweep and then abruptly stopped when he found himself looking at the stern of a Singaporean cutter a thousand feet ahead.“Down scope,” he ordered with a trace of concern in his voice before mumbling, “a cutter is in the middle of the channel. Anchor lines to port and starboard.”
   Zhdanov frowned, rubbed his chin, and said,“We can’t afford to snag an anchor line or run aground. It’s a very tight space on either side, sir.”
   The captain studied the nautical chart, looking for the deeper of the two sides.“True, but we can’t stay here.” Making his decision, he added, “Ahead slow, right full rudder.”
   There was a pause before Zhdanov said,“Ahead slow, right full rudder, aye.”
   Sergeyev knew his men were concerned, probably even questioning his orders. And that was fine, so long as they didn’t question him aloud.
   He planned to attempt a daring maneuver: bypassing the anti-submarine vessel on its starboard, or right side, without running aground in the shallow water on that side of the canal. He glanced at the chart again.“Rudder amidships.”
   “Rudder amidships,” Zhdanov said mechanically.
   All hands were watching the captain as the depth of the water under the keel continued to decrease. He looked calm, but his pulse raced.
   Popov, sitting at his sonar station, began to breathe faster, headphones on his bald head, perspiration running down the back of his neck. He kept his eyes closed, listening. Then,“Eleven feet, Cap’n.”
   Masking his doubts, Sergeyev nodded.
   “Seven feet,” Popov muttered.
   The crew began exchanging frightened looks. Some of the men braced for a collision.
   “Three feet. Captain, we’re going aground,” Popov said in a loud whisper, eyes wide open as he stared at his commander.
   “Left standard rudder,” Sergeyev ordered, knowing they had to be very close to the starboard anchor chain of the Singaporean cutter.
   “Left standard rudder,” Zhdanov uttered in a hoarse whisper.
   The submarine made soft contact with the sediment at the bottom of the basin on its starboard side. Hanging on to anything within reach, the crew prepared for another impact.
   But it never came.
   Popov let out his breath.“Four feet,” he said with obvious relief. “We missed the anchor chain.”
   “Rudder amidships,” Sergeyev ordered asK-43 snuck out through the narrow space between one side of the basin and the anchor line of the Singaporean cutter without catching it.
   Taking a deep breath, Zhdanov repeated the order.
   “Seven feet,” Popov said with a slight grin.
   Watching the depth of the water increase, Sergeyev waited until they were no longer in danger, then turned to Popov.
   “Leonod, find us a fast ride out of here,” he said, realizing he had been gritting his teeth so hard, his jaw hurt.
   “Got three already, Cap’n. All bearing zero-four-zero. Range zero-five miles. Big, fat bastards. Accelerating to one-zero knots.”
   Sergeyev did the math in his head, then said,“You know the drill. Ahead two-thirds. Bearing zero-seven-zero to intercept. Set your depth one-eight-zero feet.”
   Zhdanov repeated the command.
   K-43 cruised toward two massive oil tankers and a container ship leaving the Port of Singapore headed for the wide-open South China Sea.
   “Contact still bearing zero-four-zero. Zero-two miles. One-five knots,” Popov reported.
   Sergeyev nodded, hoping like hell that the closest tanker didn’t go beyond twenty knots, the maximum submerged speed ofK-43’s air-independent propulsion system powered by the ultra-silent hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells.
   “Contact bearing zero-four-zero. Three thousand feet. One-five knots.”
   “Match bearing and speed,” Sergeyev ordered.
   Zhdanov relayed the order as Popov reported,“Turning into her baffle, Cap’n. Speed holding at one-five knots.”
   Nicely done, Sergeyev thought. At fifteen knots and while operating in the tanker’s baffle, they were pretty much invisible to any of the vessels that might still be looking for them.
   Safely behind the noisy tanker and in open water, Sergeyev left the control room in the capable hands of his crew and went one level down to his small stateroom.
   His submariner’s instincts tempted him to go after the badly damagedStennis and fire a final torpedo. However, Omar Al Saud had different plans.
   And that meant replenishing before tackling the second half of his daring mission, which further meant leaving the crippled carrier alone and heading straight to his assigned rendezvous coordinates.
   The Russian captain splashed cold water on his face before settling into his narrow bed. As his head sunk in his pillow, his eyes gravitated to the photo taped to the wall. The smiling faces of his wife and their three girls filled his view.
   “I’m halfway there, Katrina,” he whispered. “Halfway there.”
   His family now lived peacefully on a patch of land nestled in the hills north of Coquimbo, Chile, where Sergeyev planned to start a vineyard and live the rest of his days in peace— courtesy of Omar Al Saud.
   As long as I fulfill my promise, he thought.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), THIRTY-FIVE MILES SOUTH OF SINGAPORE
   Petty Officer Second Class Marshon Chappelle sat in a trance.
   In the middle of his midnight shift, he listened to the sounds of the sea while staring at the dozens of tracers flickering down the two stacked thirty-two-inch flat-screen monitors that washed his dark features in hues of wan yellow and green.
   To the untrained ear, the audio captured by the revolutionary BQQ-10 bow-mounted spherical active/passive sonar-array sounded like random noise.
   But to Chappelle it represented the symphony of the sea, enhanced by the complementary wide aperture of fiber-optic sonar arrays mounted along either side of the hull. It resulted in a masterful and rich performance composed of many separate sources, harmonizing the music that also vibrated to life on his high-definition screen.
   The language of the sonarman.
   He could hear the discrete cavitation of a fishing boat to the south.
   Bearing one-seven-six. Range nineteen miles. Speed one-three knots.
   It sounded like a flute, hovering in the distance, distinctively alone, almost fragile, represented by the narrow trace traveling down the far-left side of his upper screen.
   Then there was the richer sound of a clarinet, clear, simple, a slightly larger boat dancing with the waves, its small twin four-blade screws stirring tranquil waters on the surface as it traveled west.
   Bearing two-six-seven. Range two-six miles. Speed zero-seven knots.
   Chappelle enjoyed most the mellow tunes of the various saxophones, from sopranos and altos to tenors and baritones. They represented the middle spectrum of the music of his soul, smooth and ripe, capturing the cavitation of the young adults of the sea, from larger fishing rigs and pleasure cruisers to midsize merchant vessels. He heard them and saw them in complete harmony, rising and falling, their signals strengthening or fading, some lasting hours, while others played for a short time before vanishing in the background.
   Then came the French horns and tubas, the big girls of the ocean, deep and beautiful, their traces dominating the low end of the spectrum, forming the canvas on which all other instruments performed.
   Chappelle felt their combined power as he sat back, alone in the sonar station, hands open, palms up, fully in a meditative state as he listened.
   And that’s when he heard it: a tenor sax, faint, almost imperceptible, but definitely the cavitation of a large seven-blade screw underwater. Too deep to be a surface vessel and lacking the accompanying sound of a diesel.
   Hello.
   Chappelle now closed his eyes, tuning in, but he could not hear the subtler hissing sound of the batteries, which could only mean—
   Submerged and running on an electric motor powered by—
   What the hell?
   He bolted up and stared at his bottom screen in time to catch its very faint glow trickling at the far-right side, barely visible and definitely lacking the accompanying sound of a diesel or traditional batteries.
   Since leaving the area southwest of Sri Lanka more than three days before, following the Tomahawk launch on the terrorist base,Missouri had made it to the southwestern coast of Malaysia. Along the way, it had transitioned command from US Naval Forces Central Command (NAVCENT) to United States Pacific Fleet (USPACFLT), the naval component of the United States Pacific Command (USPACOM) encompassing the eastern portion of the Indian Ocean, the South China Sea, and the entire Pacific Ocean.Missouri’s orders from USPACFLT, headquarters at Naval Station Pearl Harbor in Honolulu, Hawaii, had been relayed to the Commander, Submarine Force, US Pacific Fleet (COMSUBPAC), which had directed Kelly’s boat straight toward the port of Singapore to rendezvous withStennis as it crawled toward NS Pearl Harbor. The Mighty Mo was now tasked with providing submarine support in the wake of the tragic loss ofNorth Dakota. The news had rattled the crew, especially those who had either friends or family aboard it, a list that included Cmdr. Frank Kelly. The skipper had taken the personal blow stoically, leaving Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti in charge of the control room before retiring to his quarters.
   Chappelle closed his eyes and listened again, this time picking up what sounded like a faint high-pitch whisper, like someone blowing very gently in his ears, almost imperceptible but still very real— the sound of hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells.
   “Conn, Sonar! New contact! Bearing zero-seven-zero!” he finally announced, licking his lips and rubbing his eyes. “Range three-six miles. Speed one-five knots. It’s a type Two-One-Two.”
   Lt. Cmdr. Giannotti appeared in a flash, his bulk hovering over him.
   “Is that the bastard, Chappy?” he asked in his booming voice.
   “Well, it’s not one of ours, sir. And it’s trying to sneak out of there in the middle of the night. So…”
   “Nice job, kid. Stay on him,” Giannotti said before heading over to the pilot and copilot.
   Chappelle closed his eyes and focused, locating it again near the far side of the orchestra playing that lone tu—
   The contact suddenly vanished, both in his headset as well as on the screen.Gone. Poof.
   Chappelle blinked when the alto sax dissolved within the fuller melody of two French horns and a tuba, the cavitation from the screws of two large tankers and a mega container ship steaming away from the Port of Singapore.
   Son of a bitch, he thought, then shouted,“Son of a bitch!”
   “What is it, Chappy?” Giannotti asked.
   “Smart girl. It’s hiding in the baffle of a larger ship. It’s gotta be our guy.”
   The large officer came running back, placing a hand on the back of Chappelle’s chair and leaning down. “How? Did it surface? We should hear her diesels.”
   “Negative, sir. It’s running on those new batteries. Hydrogen cells. Could barely hear her and its single screw as it was. Now she’s a ghost.”
   “Can you track which one?”
   “There are three at the moment,” he said, pointing at the parallel contacts dripping down the left side of the bottom screen. “And it vanished behind the leftmost one… this oil tanker.” He placed his index on a vertical trace. “But the tanker’s baffle is so close to that of this second tanker and this container ship that the Type 212 could hop from one to the other and we would never know it, at least from this distance. Fortunately, all three are heading to the South China Sea.”
   “For now,” Giannotti said.
   “Yeah. But if we get close enough, I might be able to pick her up, even in the baffle.”
   “Then let’s get you close enough,” Giannotti said before calling Cmdr. Kelly’s stateroom.
   Feeling the mild acceleration of the Mighty Mo preparing for a hunt, Chappelle returned to his concert, scrubbing the outer reaches of the orchestra, searching for his tenor sax.
   Cmdr. Frank Kelly worked through his seventeenth mile on one of the stationary bikes in the small gym amidships. His hands gripped the handles so hard that his knuckles were white. Drenched in sweat, he ignored the casual glances from the half dozen sailors lifting weights, just as he ignored his burning thighs and calves, his eyes fixated on the pipes running alongside the starboard side of the ship. But in his mind, he saw the torpedoes woundingStennis and killingNorth Dakota.
   Killing Little Charlie, he thought as everyone in the family called Lieutenant Junior Grade Charles Kelly, one of the 135 souls who had perished when the sub broke up and—
   Kelly stopped pedaling when he sensed the sudden acceleration. The men working out also stopped, looking at one another in obvious confusion.
   What the hell?
   But just as he was about to climb off, Giannotti stepped through the bulkhead.
   “What’s going on, Bobby?” he asked.
   The large XO grabbed a white towel from the stack next to the water fountain, walked up to the bike, and handed it to his superior officer.“Time to get some payback, Boss.”
   His heart pounding in his chest, Kelly caught his breath, wiped his face, then asked,“What are you talking about?”
   “Chappy found the bastard, sir. We’re going hunting.”USS ABRAHAM LINCOLN (CV 76), SUEZ CANAL, EGYPT
   A Sikorsky CH-53E Super Stallion helicopter hovered fifty feet over the flight deck after a five-hour flight from US Army Garrison Stuttgart in Germany that had included refueling over the Mediterranean. But today, the heavy-duty transport, designed to carry as many as fifty troops, hauled a very different load: US Naval Special Warfare Development Group commander Jake Russo, his team of eight operators, and more than 25,000 pounds of violence. That included a MK 8 Mod 1 SEAL Delivery Vehicle (SDV) secured to the bottom of the Super Stallion.
   A fifteen-year veteran with the SEALs and on his third year as commander of DEVGRU, or SEAL Team Six, as it is more commonly known, Russo breathed in the dry desert air while he watched the helicopter crew lower the twenty-one-foot-long midget submarine just aft of the carrier’s island, out of the way of its rows of parked planes.
   “Tell me, Jake,” said his right-hand man, Lieutenant Gustavo Pacheco, who stood next to his commander by one of the Super Stallion’s side windows. “Of all the damned places we could have gone to set up shop, why here? I mean, didn’t we just lose nine brothers on a carrier just like this one?”
   Although Pacheco was right, of course, and the pain of losing team members— some of whom he had personally trained — was still incredibly raw, Russo ignored him. He kept his eyes on the SDV swinging slightly at the end of a thick steel cable as a sailor on the flight deck guided the pilot.
   “We’re sitting fucking ducks here, amigo,” Pacheco added. “I mean, look at it. Just a big fat target ripe for a big fat missile, and that ain’t no way for a brother to die. No, sir.”
   “We go where we need to go, Gus,” Russo replied as the SDV finally reached the flight deck and the crew disconnected the cable and began to secure it. “And this carrier is a step closer to getting some payback instead of sitting on our fat asses in Norfolk feeling sorry for ourselves.”
   As the Super Stallion’s pilot shifted over amidships to drop them off, Russo added, “Besides, if it were easy…”
   “Yeah, they would have sent the army,” Pacheco said.
   “Copy that,” Russo replied.
   But the commander also wasn’t happy with their current predicament. Unfortunately, arrangements had already been made for his team to useLincoln as his staging area while waiting to get word on the whereabouts of whoever was responsible for the attacks againstTruman andStennis.
   And now this mess, he thought, looking at the distant columns of smoke to the north and south as the large helicopter finally settled on the flight deck.
   Russo jumped off and was greeted by a young petty officer with instructions to escort him to see the captain.
   As his team unloaded their gear from the helicopter, Russo followed the sailor to the island. Looking around the deck, he had to admit that Pacheco was probably right on the money. At the moment, he felt more like a sitting duck than a SEAL.
   — 15 —UNITED NATIONS HEADQUARTERS, NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
   Secretary of State Brad Austin had never pulled a punch in his life and despised those who did. In the old fighter pilot’s opinion — and he considered himself as much a fighter pilot now as he had decades ago in the skies over Vietnam — you had to commit yourself to a mission and either be all in or not at all.
   Staring at the impassive faces in the United Nations General Assembly, Austin knew that at least some were directly responsible for the attacks onTruman, Stennis, and nowLincoln. He also knew that many more, although not responsible, had taken joy in the pain inflicted on his nation. Then there were those who remained neutral, unwilling to take sides, even secretly. And finally, there were the usual handful of true allies of the United States, like Britain and Israel.
   Slowly he stood and approached the dais as the murmuring diplomats quieted and all eyes focused on him. He took another moment to look deliberately around the hall at the sea of sullen faces before he spoke.
   “Mr. Secretary General. Mr. President. Distinguished delegates, colleagues, ladies, and gentlemen. Thank you for inviting me to speak with you today on such short notice. I sincerely appreciate this opportunity to address a serious matter for all of us.”
   He paused a moment to gaze at the crowd again.“The United Nations was formed in 1945 to promote peace and international cooperation. Over the years, this organization has been instrumental in defending freedom by providing a foundation for our mutual security. Today, I come before this body asking the United Nations to work with us to help defeat a growing threat to humanity.”
   Scanning the audience, Austin observed the lack of reaction.“Many of your governments have supported our war on terrorism, and we are extremely grateful for your assistance. However, we need to do more, and we are requesting your help.”
   A collective unease settled over the audience, many of whom only now realized this was not going to be a pro forma speech.
   An edge of anger crept into his voice as Austin continued.“Violent terrorists have brought their armed conflict back to the shores of our country.”
   Austin looked directly at the delegates from Iran and Yemen.“They’ve aligned themselves against all humanity and America in particular. We are determined to defeat them, and America will assist every nation that joins in our effort.”
   He then made eye contact with Ambassador Adel al-Faisal sitting in the middle of the delegates from Saudi Arabia.“These thugs and killers,” he said, the anger in his voice rising, “should haveno friends in the United Nations.Not one,” he said, looking directly at the Saudi delegation. “Every member of the UN should immediately denounce terrorism as a plague on civilized society. These wicked people wreak havoc on all, including children, without a shred of mercy or shame. There isn’t a negotiated solution to be found. Nor should there be. There is no way to reason with those so irrational, with those soderanged, that they would attack a pier full of women and children, and the United States will not make any attempt to do so.”
   Austin paused and grimaced.“We’re going to continue to prosecute the war on terrorism,and the governments that support terrorists, and we will wipe them from the face of the earth.”
   Another audible murmur, this time a tad louder, rose from the delegates. Two from Iran and one from Yemen began protesting loudly.
   Austin saw Ambassador Adel al-Faisal begin to stand up, apparently ready to storm out. Another member of the Saudi delegation urged him to sit down.
   That’s right, pal. Best not to storm out when someone is preaching hellfire against terrorism, unless you want everyone to know you support it.
   Steeped in his conviction, Austin waited a few moments, then said,“The United States of America is one of the original signers of the United Nations Charter. We remain committed to the UN’s stated purposes. America and the United Nations have a moral obligation to eradicate terrorism and secure a lasting peace.”
   Austin saw deep frowns on the faces of many of the delegates.“On behalf of President Macklin, I call on the UN Security Council to adopt a new anti-terrorism and anti-arms-proliferation resolution that must include every member of the UN.” He paused and then repeated with emphasis, “Every member.”
   Noting many scowls, Austin moved on.“As the president’s representative, I am compelled to inform you that he’s going to honor his sacred oath of office. UN resolution or no resolution, President Macklin is going to protect his country and its citizens. No matter where in the world they are, the United States will defend its interests.”
   In unison, delegates from Saudi Arabia, Iran, Yemen, Pakistan, and even Sweden stood up and interrupted Austin, shouting that he was out of line and demanding that he sit down.
   He paused to let them finish. The Swedes sat down first, followed by the Saudis and then the others. But still, no one walked out.
   Austin then continued in an even-tempered voice.“My statement should not be regarded as a threat. It should be accepted asfact. We hope to work with the UN to end the wave of terrorism currently targeted at our naval forces. But we will not engage in years or months or weeks or evendays of debate. The UN can act quickly and decisively to rid our civilized society of terrorism… or the US will act as it sees need.”
   He noticed the representatives from Israel, Great Britain, Germany, and Australia nodding vigorously in agreement. Some of their delegates even clapped, drawing glares from the Iranians and the Saudis.
   Keeping his poker face, Austin added,“The United States is ready and willing to help draft the new resolutions. We look forward to working hand in hand with all members of the UN.”
   He paused to smile faintly.“Together we can show the world how effective the United Nations can be. Thank you for your time and attention.”THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   First Lady Maria-Eden Macklin turned to her husband as they enjoyed a light dinner in the residence and slowly shook her head.“I’d say that was a bit arrogant.”
   President Cord Macklin could not stop the wry smile that spread across his face as he reached for the remote control and shut off the TV.“Actually, that was reasonably mild for a Marine Corps fighter pilot, and especially for Brad.”
   “Uh-huh.” Maria gazed at her husband. “Because political correctness is a foreign language Secretary Austin has never mastered,” she said with an unfavorable look.
   “That’s what’s so refreshing about him, darling,” the president countered. “He doesn’t sugarcoat anything, straightforward in Zone 5 burner at all times.”
   “Well, for better or for worse,darling, therewill be consequences because of his speech. There were quite the number of pissed-off delegates in there,” she murmured with a brief frown.
   Consequences.
   Macklin nodded to himself, then stared at his wife across the small dinner table before his gaze drifted to the blank television screen. Next to it was a large, framed photo of Lt. Cord“Cordy” Macklin standing by an F-105G in the flight line at Korat RTAB in Thailand, taken six months after he had been shot down. By then, the US had introduced the “G” version of the Thunderchief, known as the “Wild Weasel III” because of its new radar capabilities to counter the increasing North Vietnamese SAM threat. He stared at his raggedy old Wild Weasel patch on the lower right corner of the photo, bearing the goofy-looking creature with startled eyes over the acronymYGBSM. You Gotta Be Shitting Me.
   Macklin frowned, remembering how that stupid patch had reflected the sentiment among the pilots at Korat. The G model, introduced toward the end of the war, as well as the Wild Weasel IV conversion of the F-4C Phantom, had represented the latest in a series of technology enhancements developed by the desperate Pentagon brass to try to win a war that could not be won because of Washington’s strategic half measures.
   And the irony was that he too had repeated the mistakes of his predecessors. During his first term in office, Macklin had been shot down for the second time in his life, only he had been aboard Air Force One traveling over Georgia. And instead of a SAM, the enemy— Islamic extremists — had forced another jetliner to collide with his Boeing 747. And yet, years later, as he approached the end of his second term in the White House, the president was still fighting this damn fight against terrorism with no apparent end in sight.
   But the half measures stop now,he thought as the words of one of his favorite figures in history, Sir Winston Churchill, echoed in his mind.
   The era of procrastination, of half measures, of delays, is coming to an end. In its place, we are entering a period of consequences.ZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   “He has some nerve to speak like that,” General Deng Xiangsui said to President Xi Jiechi as the two were having tea and dim sum and watching the live feed from New York. “WithLincoln trapped in the Suez Canal, they’re down to three operational carriers — and really only two in the region, but they need to keepRoosevelt in the Sea of Japan, so it’s really justVinson.”
   “You don’t think they’ll sendRoosevelt south to join forces withVinson?”
   “Not while Pyongyang continues its missile tests and troop movements by the DMZ… per our direction.”
   Jiechi nodded, well aware of the subrogate nature of the North Korean leadership.“When isVinson expected to reach the strait?”
   “In one more day.”
   “And ours?”
   “Liaoning is headed south from Shanghai along with our new Type 096 ballistic submarine. The destroyerQingdao is leaving Hong Kong tonight with orders to followVinson when it reaches the region. I have ordered three dozen Sukhoi Su-30MKKs fighters to Fuzhou to bolster the base’s Tiangong flight squadron of Su-35S jets with orders to fly nonstop combat air patrols within our airspace. I have also tripled the number of troops and amphibious assault ships along our coast and have deployed six hundred pieces of artillery and tactical missiles between Fuzhou and Shantou, covering the whole strait. In addition, we have our fleet of Type 094 ballistic missile submarines at Yulin on high alert.”
   Jiechi stood and walked over to the windows overlooking one of the lakes. The Yulin Naval Base along the southern coast of Hainan Island, some five hundred miles south of the Taiwan Strait, was a large-scale underground base for its naval forces. Its massive caverns had enough room to hide up to twenty ballistic submarines and as many aircraft carriers as the Shanghai shipyards could produce. And the whole complex was guarded by dozens of fighter jets and the finest and largest missile defense system in all of China. His mentor had been the architect behind the place, designing it and building it— along with the submarine force — to be the nation’s most important naval base, projecting the PRC’s naval strength to the world, and in particular to the US and Russia.
   A moment later, hisZhǎng zhě walked up beside him.
   “Are you still worried about the math?”
   Hands in his pockets, staring at the lake, Jiechi just tilted his head and shrugged slightly.
   “We will have air superiority,” the general assured him. “And enough coastal and naval forces to even out the equation.”
   “I’m not worried about superior numbers,” Jiechi replied. “After all, they have the disadvantage of being a half-world away from their home ports while we operate from our doorstep. Plus, we do have one of the world’s finest armed forces.”
   “The finest.”
   Jiechi ignored him and said,“History has shown that when you place so many war machines in such proximity… mistakes happen. Wars have started that way.”
   “I will control it,” he assured him. “Everything I’m deploying is in defense of our homeland. And in the eyes of the PSC, it makes you look very strongand in control. And we will not make any moves unless discussed first with you.”
   Jiechi didn’t reply. Shifting his hands behind his back, he struggled to find another option. HisZhǎng zhě was right, of course. He could not allow the Americans to simply roam the strait flexing their muscles. The PSC would demand that he too showed strength. But he worried about controlling the escalating nature of two warring parties operating in such tight quarters.
   As he stared at the smooth water surface of Lake Southern Sea, his mind traveled south, to the white-capped swells of a different sea that in the next twenty-four hours would become far, far more turbulent.
   — 16 —SUEZ CANAL, EGYPT
   At the request of President Macklin, the Egyptian president had ordered the Suez Canal Authority to scramble and clear the waterway using Ardent Global, the leader in maritime salvage operations. Grown out the 2015 merger of two companies that had raised theCosta Concordia, the Italian cruise ship that had struck a reef and sunk in 2012, Ardent was the go-to firm for massive salvage projects— especially one that had to get done in a matter of days, not weeks.
   Within hours of the attack, Ardent had rushed in three Russian-built Mi-26 helicopters, the largest ultra-heavy lift helicopter in the world. A small army of welders had installed hard points onto various sections of the wreckage blocking the southern passage into the Gulf of Suez, which the Mi-26s then pulled up and deposited on the sandy shore. Fortunately, the sunken merchant vessel wasn’t the monster tanker blocking the northern passage, so by the morning of the first day after the attack, the job of clearing the canal was moving at a staggering pace.
   The operation ran from dawn until dusk, and expectations were high that in twelve more hours, enough of the debris would be cleared to make way for the convoy.* * *
   Ninety miles to the northeast and less than forty miles from the border with Israel, by the shores of the Mediterranean near the city of el Arish, the luxury yachtUnbridled cruised a mile offshore from an abandoned Egyptian military base. Established in 1968, during the height of the War of Attrition between Israel and forces of the Egyptian Republic, the base had been finally discarded in the late 1990s. It was then slowly taken over by a flow of Sunni Muslim refugees from Iraq and Syria funded by Saudi Arabia. Since then, the refugee camp had developed into a thriving fishing village… as well as a breeding ground for extremist Muslim recruits.
   Omar Al Saud stood on the forward observation deck on the top level of the thirty-million-dollar luxury yacht, watching through a pair of field binoculars. He ignored nearby yachts sailing past to gawk at the ultra-modern design of his 120-foot-long vessel, complete with helipad and Leonardo AW169 helicopter. Through the binoculars, the prince focused on the TEL trucks that had begun arriving from Cairo along El Qantra Shark-Al Arish Road overnight, under the cover of darkness— eighteen of them — taking over a hill just southwest of the encampment. Each truck carried two Qader medium-range anti-ship missiles developed by Iran. The Egyptian Army conducted exercises in the region from time to time as part of their strategy to keep Israeli forces on edge, so Al Saud hoped the TEL trucks, disguised as civilian vehicles parked almost a hundred miles from the canal, wouldn’t attract the attention of US aerial assets — at least not quickly enough to make a difference.
   The Saudi prince frowned, wishing he had had more time to acquire twice as many of the missiles from the corrupt military minister in Cairo. Described by his Iranian contacts as the most powerful and precise cruise missile of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Al Saud wanted to overwhelm the carrier with them, but the latest update from his people watching the salvage operation indicated that the southern passage of the canal would be cleared within the next twelve hours. And besides, the longer he waited, the greater the chances of the Americans discovering his plot and leveling the site.
   It is now or never, he thought, also wishing he could do this at night, but the Saudi prince did not want to riskLincoln escaping the 160-mile range of the missile, nor did he want to expose the trucks, civilian-looking or not, to a full day of potential visual surveillance by the Americans.
   Reaching for his satellite phone, Al Saud hit the speed dial and told the man who answered,“Now.”
   He refocused the powerful Zeiss binoculars on the remote hill some six miles away in time to see the trucks’ operators pull back the gray canvases covering the rear of their vehicles. A moment later, the sequential flashes of thirty-six Qaders, each packing a five-hundred-pound warhead of high explosives, filled his view as the eighteen-foot-long weapons shot out of their individual launcher tubes. The volley of cruise missiles vanished over the horizon in the southwestern sky, skimming the desert sands. The missiles’ digital autopilots constantly queried and microcorrected their flight paths using high-precision GPS systems programmed withLincoln’s coordinates.
   Dropping the binoculars on a lounge chair, Al Saud walked to the stern helipad. Not wishing to be anywhere near the area when those missiles hit, he climbed aboard the Leonardo AW169 bound for Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.USS ABRAHAM LINCOLN (CVN 72), SUEZ CANAL, EGYPT
   The AN/SPS-48E 3-D air search radar system picked up the tip of the threat from almost a hundred miles away. Its advanced algorithms separated the incoming missiles from the ground clutter.
   “Vampires! Vampires! Sixteen! Heading two-one-zero. Range nine-eight miles. Speed four-five-zero knots. Impact in one-two minutes,” reported one of the Combat Fire Control operators sitting behind a console in the captain’s bridge.
   Navy SEAL commander Jake Russo stood on the bridge next to Capt. Marvin Bennett as they snapped their heads around, looking at the young ensign in disbelief.“Sixteen?” asked Bennett.
   “Yes, sir… wait… wait… it’s now twenty-one… no, change that… twenty-nine incoming… wait… it’s thirty-six. Confirmed. Thirty-six vampires.”
   Oh, fuck me, Russo thought.
   Bennett turned to his CFC operators manning the controls of the AN/SWY-2 Ship Defense Surface Missile System and with far more composure than Russo felt, ordered,“Map, track, and splash.”
   The CFC technicians went to work, activating the port-side MK 144 Guided-Missile Launcher storing twenty-one missiles, as well as the RIM-7 anti-missile weapon system housing eight Sea Sparrows. Both of those missile systems, however, had an operational range of around ten miles, meaning all Bennett could do was track the vampires until they got within range.
   A moment later, a call came in from Commander Harold Gorman, skipper of USSJohn Paul Jones (DDG 53), an Arleigh Burke— class guided-missile destroyer two miles north ofLincoln.
   “Believe this shit, Marv?” Gorman hissed. “Damned Egyptians.”
   “Harry,” Bennett said. “It’s going to be close. I only have close-in weapon systems.”
   “We’ll thin the herd for you.”
   John Paul Jones had one sixty-one-cell and one twenty-nine-cell MK 41 Vertical Launching Systems housing an array of different missiles. The assortment included BGM-109 Tomahawks, RUM-139 anti-submarine missiles, RIM-174 Standard ERAM missiles with a range of more than 150 miles, and the new-generation RIM-162 Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles with an operational range of twenty-seven miles. And all that meant it could remove some of the threat before it reached the kill zone of the carrier’s close-in weapon defense systems.
   But Russo still silently cursed his current predicament as Pacheco’s words echoed in his head. The carrier strike group and its various onboard defense weapons systems had been designed to operate in concentric circles, with the aircraft carrier in the center. Missiles fired at the battle group at sea would be dealt with by the escorting destroyers and frigatesencircling the carrier — the reasonLincoln only carried close-in defense systems to handle anything that happened to get through the onslaught of the outer shields.
   But we’re stuck in a line, Russo thought as the CFC operator reported the missiles at sixty miles away.Like a sitting fucking duck.
   The impotence of his current position made him crazy, but he, personally, had no options and no job to do here. Even if a Stinger could bring down one of the missiles, he didn’t have one, and by the time he could get his hands on one of those brought on board after the attack onTruman, it would already be too late. So he did the only thing he could do: stand next to Bennett over the radar station staring at the array of dots rapidly closing in on the carrier.
   And all aimed at us, he thought, trying very hard to put out of his mind what would happen if just one of those missiles made it through their defenses.
   “Three-six vampires,” reported the operator. “Heading two-one-zero. Range— Way to go,Jones!”
   Eight dots appeared on the bottom of the radar screen as the destroyer released its load of ERAMs, dashing at Mach 3.5 toward the threat. In less than a minute, the volley tore into the front end of the incoming missiles.
   “Three-zero vampires,” reported the operator. “Heading two-one-zero. Range three-niner miles. Speed four-five-zero knots. First impact in zero-four minutes, thirty-eight seconds.”
   “Eight missiles, six hits,” Bennett said, frowning. Russo felt a rising panic in his chest at his utter lack of control of the events rapidly unfolding in front of him.
   Fifteen more dots lit up on the lower left side of the console asJones next released its load of Enhanced Sea Sparrow Missiles.
   With a combined closing speed of over a thousand miles per hour, the volley of ESSMs bridged the gap in under a minute, their dual-mode X-band seekers locked to individual targets tracked byJones’s Sewaco/Active Phased Array Radar, providing target illumination all the way to impact.
   The ESSMs stabbed the vampire cluster, and an instant later nine of the incoming missiles vanished from radar.
   “Two-one vampires. Heading two-one-zero. Range two-niner miles. Speed four-five-zero knots. First impact in zero-two minutes, forty-one seconds.”
   “Dammit,” Bennett cursed. Russo frowned at the kill ratio of the ESSMs and the ERAMs. But so many detonations so close together created enough debris to confuse the radar system, especially while skimming the ground.
   Another barrage of ESSMs shot off from a guided-missile cruiser two miles south, at the front of the stranded convoy, and Russo watched as they took out seven more missiles.
   “One-four vampires. Bearing two-one-zero. Range one-four miles. Speed four-five-zero knots. First impact in one minute, ten seconds.”
   In an impressive display of close-in defensive power,Lincoln released its load of Sea Sparrows and RAMs in under thirty seconds— a combined twenty-nine missiles blazing head-on to intercept.
   “One-four vampires. Bearing two-one-zero. Range zero-nine miles. Speed four-five-zero knots. First impact in four-niner seconds.”
   C’mon, Russo thought, gazing out with binoculars as the contrails shot off across the desert, rushing over shallow sand dunes as they collided with the incoming wave of vampires.
   Even at a distance of several miles, it was a sight to see as the horizon ignited with flashes resembling distant lighting, followed by clapping thunder.
   “Three vampires. Bearing two-one-zero. Range zero-four miles. Speed four-five-zero knots. First impact in twenty seconds!”
   Russo could see the three missiles that had broken through, their contrails clearly visible right over the sand.
   The single port-side Phalanx close-in weapon system six-barrel 20 mm Gatling gun sprang to life the moment the vampires reached its two-mile kill zone. Nicknamed “R2-D2 with a hard-on” because of its profile, the squat gun system vomited rounds at the rate of 4,500 per minute, painting a wall of armor-piercing tungsten rounds in front of the closest missile, which detonated in a ball of fire and shrapnel just over a mile fromLincoln’s bow. Rapidly switching targets, the Phalanx shot another volley of rounds in front of the next missile, detonating it less than four thousand feet from the ship, the blast rattling the windows of the captain’s bridge.
   “Brace for impact!” shouted Bennett as the CWIS engaged the final vampire at a distance of two thousand feet, its tungsten penetrator rounds catching it at a twenty-degree angle, damaging its guidance system before piercing the warhead.
   The blast, less than eight hundred feet away, shook the entire island superstructure. The fireball blocked the view from all port-side windows before flaming debris drizzled harmlessly across the flight deck.
   As Bennett called the Pentagon and Russo stared at the smoke and flames in disbelief that they had actually survived the attack, the SEAL commander noticed people entering the bridge. He turned to the large bulkhead, where he spotted, over the heads of the bridge personnel busily clicking away at their stations, Lt. Gustavo Pacheco flanked by his operators.
   His second in command just stood there, crossed his arms, and mouthed,What the fuck?
   — 17 —BLUE DUCK TAVERN, WASHINGTON, DC
   Hartwell Prost sat alone at a corner table at his favorite eatery, in the historic Georgetown neighborhood on the northwest side of the capital. It was located just a stone’s throw away from the brownstone he had purchased in a short sale during the economic collapse of 2008. He’d had a moment of empathy for the seller, until he learned the seller had been an investment banker working in derivatives and thus responsible for the very crisis forcing him to sell.
   The restaurant didn’t have the history of places like the Old Ebbitt Grill or Martin’s Tavern, but it did have great food. And after the day he’d had dealing with the near miss in the Suez Canal, tonight the DNI needed a decent meal and a drink… or three.
   Prost looked around the place. He was used to eating alone, having done so for pretty much most of his life, minus the two years he had been married, at which he failed miserably. And that reminded him of the advice his old Langley boss had offered the moment Prost had put in for vacation to go tie the knot: you’re already married.
   But at the time, he’d been in love, or so he had thought, and had gone through with it anyway. It took him two stormy years to realize that personal relationships did not mesh well with careers in espionage, especially one that took him to distant locales for months at a time. Two decades later, after traveling theworld and finally getting called back to a permanent post at Langley, Prost had tried his hand with a dating service. But after the third date during which he’d had to jokingly say to a woman, “I could tell you, but then I’d have to kill you,” he realized “dating,” particularly outside of intelligence circles, wasn’t going to be for him.
   He did know several women from Langley and Fort Meade— headquarters of the NSA — whose company he enjoyed privately, but none expected anything more from him than room service and what adults do when they meet in hotel rooms to have room-service dinners.
   On the rare occasion he needed a public date, say for a White House event, he would extend an invitation to a genuine friend of his from college, whose career had also brought her to DC. Since she was a rather well-known advocate of LGBQT rights and very much“out,” no one ever made the mistake of connecting them romantically. Of course, some therefore made erroneous conclusions about his own preferences, but that more amused him than anything else.
   So here you are, pal, eating all by your lonesome, he thought.
   But a moment later, his encrypted phone vibrated twice, reminding him that he was never actually“alone.” Of course, at that very moment, his food arrived.
   Glancing at the text message, then at his dinner, which looked and smelled delicious, the DNI frowned, then turned to his waiter.“Frankie, I need this to go, please.”
   “Sure thing, Mr. Prost.”
   A dark sedan waited for him at the curb outside the restaurant. It headed up Wisconsin Avenue before turning left on Massachusetts and right on Thirty-Eighth Street, coming to a stop in front of a nondescript three-story brownstone.
   Climbing out with his takeout in hand, Prost walked to the door and entered a code in the keypad. A set of magnetic locks disengaged, and he faced a long corridor leading to another locked door. Again, he entered a code and this time it swung open automatically, revealing the cavernous interior of a room that resembled a mini version of NASA Mission Control in Houston, Texas. Wall-to-wall projection screens towered over three rows of consoles. A mix of military and civilian personnel busily clicked away, completely oblivious to him.
   A woman in a blue US Army Service Uniform— commonly called a Class A uniform — came up to him holding a tablet computer. The name stenciled on her name tag identified her as Blake. Her shoulder straps showed captain’s bars.
   “Right this way, Mr. Prost,” she said, regarding the DNI with steady green eyes. Technically, Captain Christine Blake reported to the head of the army’s Imagery Intelligence division, but at the moment, she reported directly to Prost.
   They went into a glass-walled conference room off to the right, and he sat at one end of a table facing a seventy-inch LED screen.
   While Captain Blake worked her tablet at the other end of the table, next to the screen, Prost reached in the bag and produced his to-go meal, carefully packed in a round-lidded plastic container.
   Capt. Blake said,“At zero eight hundred local time, USSLincoln came under attack by thirty-six Qader anti-ship missiles. As you know, we’re hitting the area where the missiles originated within the hour. Our potential HVT, however, is right here.” The army captain pointed to a large luxury yacht that appeared to be about a mile from shore. A helicopter sat on its stern deck. “This video was captured at the very edge of the range of a Reaper circling the region ninety miles from the carrier at twenty thousand feet. Good thing it had an ARGUS-IS, or we would have missed it,” she said, referring to the MQ-9 Reaper’s Autonomous Real-Time Ground Ubiquitous Surveillance Imaging System, the revolutionary wide-area sensor sporting 368 five-megapixel cameras to create images of about 1.8 gigapixels at the rate of twelve frames each second while covering an area of thirty-nine square miles. Conceived and built at DARPA, the DoD’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, ARGUS-IS had the resolution to gather “pattern-of-life” data on individual people while operating at the Reaper’s maximum ceiling of fifty thousand feet.
   Prost was still angry at himself for having missed the trucks, but they had parked close to the periphery of his surveillance area set at ninety miles fromLincoln, encompassing more than twenty-five thousand square miles of terrain— which should have been plenty.
   Only it hadn’t.
   As Murphy’s Law would have it, the damn trucks, which looked like civilian vehicles, had been parked another eight miles out, and they had apparently traveled there at night.
   Can’t catch a damned break, he thought with a sigh, staring at the ARGUS-IS high-resolution video showing a man standing on a platform using binoculars pointed precisely toward the hill crowded with the TEL trucks.
   Blake worked her tablet, and the screen zoomed in, capturing the man’s facial features clearly as he spoke on the phone. Then an instant later, the missile firing began. Before the last Qader went airborne, blazing towardLincoln, the man had boarded the helicopter and flown away.
   “Who is he and where the hell did the bastard go?” he asked around a mouthful of veal.
   The captain looked down at her tablet, and the screen zoomed in even more.“The yacht’s name isUnbridled, and it’s registered to the International Bank of Riyadh. Three-dimensional facial recognition identifies him as Prince Omar Al Saud. He is the bank’s CEO.”
   Prost put down his fork and pushed away his food, suddenly losing his appetite.“Have we tracked him yet?” he finally asked, grabbing the bottle of water and twisting the cap.
   “Yes, sir. The helicopter flew to King Abdulaziz International Airport in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, where he went inside a private terminal. Thirty minutes later, he boarded another helicopter, a Sikorsky S-76C, and flew directly to a much larger yacht, theAzzam a few miles off the coast of Abu Dhabi.
   The video fast-forwarded to a megayacht that madeUnbridled look like a lifeboat.
   “Must be nice to be rich,” Prost whispered to himself, before asking, “Did we figure out who owns it?”
   Capt. Blake shook her head.“I have three guys working that now, sir.” She pointed at three men, two in ACUs and a civilian in jeans, a white T-shirt, and running shoes tapping away at their consoles wearing headphones. “All we know at the moment is that it’s registered in Saudi Arabia and that it was built by Lürssen Yachts out of Bremen-Vegesack, Germany.”
   “What about the blueprints.”
   “We’ve contacted the BND, and they’re working it real time,” Blake replied, referring to theBundensnachrichtendienst, the German Federal Intelligence Service, that country’s version of the CIA. “What we do know, is that the owner ofAzzam is also the entity who acquired the majority of the assets of the Sino-Eastern Group, which owned the planes that attackedTruman as well as the ones we bombed in Guatemala.”
   He leaned back.“And that’s as clear as it gets in our line of work, Captain.”
   “Speaking of that… he’s been standing by, sir,” she said.
   “Yeah,” Prost said. “Put him through.”
   A moment later, a man of medium stature but muscular appeared on the screen wearing faded jeans and a black T-shirt. His brown hair and matching beard were a tad long and unkempt.
   “Evening, Commander,” Prost said.
   “We’re ready to roll, sir. What’s the word?”
   “Operation Night Out is a go,” he said.
   “Will do.”
   “And good luck,” Prost said.
   The man frowned, then said,“I’d rather have the blueprints on the target so I can make my own fucking luck… sir.”
   “Absolutely,” Prost said. “You should have them in—”
   The screen went blank.
   Prost frowned.“How long before we can get that to him, Captain?”
   “Within the hour, sir.”
   “Let me know if I need to call the BND director. He owes me for last year’s tip on ISIS that kept those crazy bastards from blowing shit up in Munich.”
   “Will do, sir.”
   As Blake went off to work with his team, Prost sat back and contemplated the activity beyond the glass panels. His team with no name represented the pick of the litter from the CIA, the DIA, and the NSA, plus his special ops guys on the other side of the world.
   He stared at this operation of his own creation that didn’t exist, following orders that were never given to execute a battle plan that could fall apart — in spite of Russo’s best efforts — the moment the first bullet was fired.
   And that made Prost think of a comment made long ago by former author and commentator William F. Buckley Jr. after the alleged CIA failed plot to assassinate Indonesian president Sukarno in 1957:It had all the earmarks of a CIA operation; the bomb killed everybody in the room except Sukarno.SANTO ERASMUS, SIX HUNDRED MILES WEST OF LISBON, PORTUGAL
   Javier Ibarra and his crew worked quickly, with efficiency, lowering the three reinforced sails and preparing the motorsailer for rough seas and stormy weather.
   They cleared the scuppers, battened down the hatches, removed all extra weight from the vessel’s bow, and secured the gear aft as the onslaught of gale-force winds struckErasmus with impressive force.
   Working the twin engines, and assisted by Mario Mendoza while the other two crew members remained in the engine room, the seasoned captain knew that survival depended on keeping the vessel’s bow facing the incoming twenty-five-foot swells. And that required the Cummins to continue delivering their respective 220 horsepower of thrust.
   Heavy rain peppered the thick windscreen, and continuous lightning flashed across angry seas as Ibarra glanced at the GPS showing them roughly six hundred miles west of Lisbon.
   Middle of nowhere, he thought as the turbulent sky rapidly turned a shade of black and dark pea green and some waves crested at almost thirty feet.Mierda.
   Everyone wore life preservers in case they needed to abandon ship, but Ibarra almost laughed at the thought. No way could anyone survive a minute drifting out there.
   And forget the Whaler, he thought. Their twenty-three-footer also wouldn’t stand a chance against the towering swells.
   They would either getErasmus through this or they all died. There would be no calling anyone for help in the middle of the North Atlantic. Besides, the moment he had accepted Al Saud’s lucrative contract, the only contact he was allowed to have was with one of Al Saud’s spies. Operating out of the Virginia Beach area, the spy monitored movements of Coast Guard and US Navy vessels to help ensure thatErasmus got to its destination.
   He stared at the encrypted satellite phone strapped to the console, realizing he was a bit overdue for his initial call, but at the moment Ibarra had more pressing issues, like the view beyond the thick windowpanes, ominous even to the veteran sailor. There was something unnatural about staring up at the white tops of waves as tall as the motorsailer’s masts.
   You can do this, Javi.
   Ibarra settled behind the controls as his father’s voice echoed in his mind. He had done everything by the book, shifting cargo to improve the boat’s balance and securing all hatches to makeErasmus impermeable.
   Keeping the throttles at one-third power, he guided the vessel at a minimum speed into the jaws of the mounting waves, pounding headfirst against breakers as the storm gathered strength.
   When the windblasts topped fifty-two miles per hour, and the torrential rainfall reduced visibility to zero, Ibarra briefly lost his sense of direction.
   “Javi!” Mendoza shouted as the windscreen cleared for a moment— enough for Ibarra to see a towering rogue wave crashing over the bow. The impact rolled the heavy yacht over on its starboard side and tossed both men onto the deck.
   He struck something hard as the mainmast went underwater for a few moments before the sturdy Cheoy Lee righted herself.
   Get up, Javi.
   Get up!
   He did, scrambling back to the helm, the side of his face feeling warm, almost burning.
   “You’re bleeding!” Mendoza shouted as he staggered toward him with a towel.
   But Ibarra only cared about one thing: the engine gauges. He breathed a sigh of relief at the sight of both tachometers still showing the Cummins humming away at eleven hundred RPM.
   Grabbing the wheel, he steered the bow directly into the next wave, adjusting the dual throttles and crashing through it.
   Only then did he allow a quick glance at his feet and see the blood dripping down his legs and onto the teak floor. Mendoza tried to keep the towel pressed against his head, but the lurching of the ship made it near impossible.
   His heart pounding like a drum, and his own watery blood running down the side of his face, Ibarra used the flashes of lightning to help him see through the squall.
   The churning sea constantly changed direction as thunder clapped. He used just enough throttle to make headway, fighting panic as breakers crashed over the boat and the wheel fought his attempts to hold course.
   All thoughts of money disappeared as he contemplated the real possibility of dying at sea, and the thought made him think of his father again, of the feelings that must have swept through him during his final moments.
   ButErasmus was almost five times the size of that old fishing rig, and it had been designed specifically for transoceanic journeys. It had even been constructed to roll completely and straighten herself out.
   So, he persisted, wave after explosive wave. Foam and surf engulfed them as he guided the motorsailer, its bow stabbing the waves again and again, confident in his training, in his watertight vessel, and in his experienced crew.
   Slowly the yacht punched through to the other side of the front, as visibility steadily increased and the winds gradually declined, along with the size of the swells pounding his hull, leaving the storm behind and once again accelerating through calmer seas.
   He decided to keep it simple and just stick to the diesels until they were completely away from the front, steering west.
   Mendoza pulled out a first-aid kit beneath the console and started working on the side of his head.
   “Nice one,cabrón,” the native from San Sebastian mumbled, applying first several Steri-Strips and then a dressing over the wound. “Definitely an improvement. Thechicas back home will go crazy.”
   Ibarra chuckled as the first sign of sunlight pierced through the clouds.
   Leaving the helm in Mendoza’s capable hands, Ibarra headed two levels belowdecks to the engine room. He found Sammy Chen, his chief mechanic, crawling between the rumbling Cummins. The slim native of Taipei, dressed in oil-stained coveralls with the sleeves rolled up above his elbows, looked up from his work. He pointed tothe side of his forehead, exposing a heavily tattooed forearm.
   “You should see the other guy!” Ibarra shouted over the engine noise, and Chen gave him a thumbs-up before vanishing behind the diesels.
   Off to the side, working an electrical panel, stood Jorge Diaz, his back to Ibarra. A former lieutenant with theArmada Española, or Spanish Navy, Diaz knew the North Atlantic better than anyone, plus he also held a degree in electronics from some online university Ibarra couldn’t remember.
   Leaving them to their duties, Ibarra headed one level up to the main salon, just below the bridge, and looked around quickly to make sure nothing had gotten loose before pulling on a handle hidden behind a sofa.
   A three-by-four hatch swung open on the teak floor between the galley and the lounge, nearly invisible until now, exposing a set of steps dropping into the vessel’s secret cargo area custom built by Girón between the forward and stern cabins one level below. Turning on the light, he stepped down to the spacious compartment used by his old mentor to smuggle drugs around the globe before Ibarra had continued the tradition and added arms to his list of clandestine services. He inspected the assortment of rifles, submachine guns, pistols, and RPGs secured to the walls before his eyes converged on the metallic case still fastened to hard points on the floor with yellow heavy-duty ratchet straps. This was, by far, the most critical — and most lucrative— object he had ever smuggled.
   Kneeling by it, Ibarra entered the code on the digital keypad given to him by Al Saud, and lifted the hinged lid.
   The weapon appeared undamaged— at least as far as he could tell. Breathing a sigh of relief, the Basque sailor headed back up to the bridge, where he found Mendoza still at the helm.
   Angry cumulous clouds had given way to an orange-stained sky that filled Ibarra with the renewed hope that maybe, just maybe, he might be able to fulfill this contract and live to enjoy the fortune sitting in his account in Costa Rica.
   Satisfied that all was once again in order, Ibarra reached for the satellite phone. But as coincidence would have it, the gadget beeped twice.
   Mendoza looked over from the helm.“That is strange,sí?”
   “Indeed.”
   He read the message twice, frowned, then turned to Mendoza and said,“Flank speed. We need to reach the entrance to Chesapeake Bay as soon as possible.”SUBMARINEK-43, SOUTH CHINA SEA
   The time had come to part ways with the oil tanker that had been their lifeline, providing them with a stealthy ride away from the carnage they’d caused in Singapore.
   Yuri Sergeyev hated to leave its protective baffle, but the tanker had started a northwest turn, and Sergeyev’s rendezvous coordinates required him to steer east, toward the Philippines. But rather than breaking off and continuing on their preordained course at their current speed and depth, Sergeyev had an old Cold War trick up his sleeve. One he knew better than most.
   The trick called for a brief period of silence to give the sonar operator a chance to listen for enemy contacts. Although the baffle from the tanker’s screws had kept them safe from enemy vessels, it also blinded their sonar arrays. For all Sergeyev knew, the entire US Pacific Fleet could be steaming right alongside his boat.
   “Rudder amidships,” he said. “All stop. Hold bearing. Set depth six-zero-zero feet. Not a sound, Anatoli.”
   “Rudder amidships. All stop,” Anatoli Zhdanov replied. “Setting depth to six-zero-zero feet. Quiet everyone.”
   Sergeyev reached for an overhead pipe to steady himself. The submarine went completely silent and began to descend through the thermal layers as water entered the bow ballast tank.
   “You’re up, Leonod,” he whispered to Popov.
   Covering a yawn, stretching, and rubbing his eyes, the sonarman reached for his headphones and secured them over his ears for the first time since they’d begun tailing the tanker.
   A few minutes later, as they settled at six hundred feet, Popov sprang forward on his chair.
   “Contact!” he hissed, obviously struggling to keep his voice down. “Bearing three-two-zero. Range zero-eight miles. Depth one-five-zero feet. Captain, it’s a Virginia class. And it is behind us!”
   Sergeyev inhaled sharply in true surprise, unable to explain that one.
   “Have they flooded their tubes and opened their torpedo doors, Leonod?”
   Eyes closed now, Popov listened before replying,“Negative, Cap’n. Torpedo doors closed. Tubes not flooded.”
   “Captain,” Zhdanov whispered. “The Americans are right—”
   “I know where they are, Anatoli. The question is, can they see us?”
   “But how did they find us?”
   Sergeyev wished he had an answer.“What’s their position, Leonod?”
   “No change in bearing, depth, or speed, Cap’n. Zero-six miles behind us. They will cruise right over us in another four minutes.”
   Sergeyev grinned as Zhdanov whispered,“They can’t see us, Captain. The Americans can’t see us.”
   For an instant, Sergeyev was tempted to take on the sub. He had six torpedoes left and could fire them at a very short range, catching the sub by surprise.
   Doing so, however, would not only be a gross deviation from his very strict orders, it would telegraph his position to the entire US Navy if the Americans managed to send out a distress signal. It would also expose him and his crew unnecessarily
   So, instead, he just kept his sub silent and deep, standing in the control room alongside his men quietly waiting for the Virginia-class sub to pass them by.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), SOUTH CHINA SEA
   It was a one in three chance, and Cmdr. Frank Kelly was beginning to wonder if he had chosen the wrong tanker. But at the time, it had seemed like the logical choice. The Type 212A reported by Marshon Chappelle had vanished while approaching three massive baffles, so logic suggested it had followed the closest one.
   But after following it from a respectful distance for nearly twenty-four hours, he was starting to wonder if requesting this deviation from his orders to escortStennis to Honolulu had been the smartest choice.
   “What do you think, Bobby?”
   Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti shrugged.“Chappy? Anything?”
   “Negative, sir. Just the tanker. No other contacts.”
   “Well, crap,” the XO said, crossing his arms. “Now what?”
   Glancing at his watch, Kelly replied,“Stay the course for three more hours, then we call it a day and joinStennis.”
   “So much for our little hunting party,” his XO said.
   “Yeah,” Kelly said. “It was a long shot, anyway.”
   The captain headed aft, toward the crew’s living space. A set of metal steps took him down to the ship’s galley, mess hall, and ward room, and just past it, the junior officer’s quarters right across the narrow hallway from the XO’s and CO’s cabins. He went inside the latter, a room just barely large enough to accommodate a bed, a small desk and chair beneath a pair of metal bookcases, and a built-in cabinet containing his clothes, a few personal items, and a safe.
   Lying down, Kelly tried to get some shut-eye, but he couldn’t get the damn ghost sub out of his mind. And besides, every time he closed his eyes, he could hear the final scream of his nephew and the rest of the sailors as their bodies were crushed by the catastrophic change in pressure whenNorth Dakota’s hull broke up.
   He sighed, somehow taking solace in the fact that it had happened suddenly.
   Still… by now the news would have reached his brother living in Danbury, Connecticut. And the thought made him glance over at the five-by-seven framed photo on his desk of his twin girls, now sophomores at UConn.
   How do you recover from something like that?
   And how the hell did it fool us? he thought before trying to put himself in the shoes of its captain.
   “What would you do?” he mumbled at the overhead pipes and wires lining the ceiling. After severely damaging an enemy aircraft carrier, evading ASW assets, and escaping out to sea, would Kelly have sailed back to his home base and keep his head down until things cooled off? Or…
   He frowned.Would its captain be greedy enough to attempt another strike?
   The report from COMSUBPAC indicated that the ghost sub had fired six torpedoes atStennis, and the Type 212A could carry a maximum of twelve, meaning its captain still had half its load— enough to take on another carrier.
   But if so, which one?
   The Theodore Roosevelt Carrier Strike Group was up in the Sea of Japan,Vinson was headed for the strait,Lincoln was trying to make it to the Arabian Sea, andStennis was limping toward Honolulu.
   He shook his head, deciding that he’d leaveStennis alone and focus his remaining ordnance on the closest ones:Vinson orRoosevelt. To do so, he’d have to accelerate to at least at two-thirds speed to catch them. And that meant enough noise for Chappy to pick him up.
   Kelly sat up and reached for the intercom phone next to his desk.
   “Boss?” Giannotti said.
   “Put us on a racetrack pattern, Bobby. Bearing one-four-zero. A hundred and fifty miles long, ten miles wide.”
   “But… that’s going to take us down toward Manila. I thought we’re supposed to be heading toward Honolulu to escortStennis.”
   “Not yet, Bobby. I’ll square off with the COMSUBPAC on our next cycle. Meanwhile, get Chappy and his crew to pull a double shift. Bastard gotta be out there somewhere. Find him.”
   “Aye, sir.”
   Lying back down, Kelly exhaled heavily as his eyes drifted back to the five-by-seven framed photo.
   He sighed. The good Lord had indeed been merciful, blessing them with their mother’s looks. His ex was one classy lady, and Kelly was glad they’d remained friends after the divorce ten years before, if anything for the sake of the girls. Marisol and Kelly may have not always agreed on certain aspects of their marriage, especially on his long absences, but they’d always agreed when it came to protecting the girls.
   Protecting the girls.
   The commander of the Mighty Mo closed his eyes, thinking of them, picturing his last visit with them. They’d played touch football, and he remembered them chasing him down, two on one. No mercy for the old man. How many birthdays had he missed? How many school plays? How many swim meets?
   He had spent his entire adult life in service to his country. He’d missed so much at home. But so had many others. And now so many of his brothers and sisters were gone. They would never have the chance to see their families again.
   Right now, at this moment, seeing his girls again would be his greatest joy. But first he had to do his job. Not just protecting his girls, but every American. So for his girls, and his brothers and sisters, and their families, he and his crew were going to find this ghost submarine.
   And kill it.
   — 18 —SANTO ERASMUS, FIVE HUNDRED MILES FROM THE COAST OF VIRGINIA
   You know the drill, gentlemen,” Javier Ibarra told Jorge Diaz and Sammy Chen, spotting his reflection in their mirror-tint sunglasses as they fished for tuna on the rear deck wearing bathing suits and sandals. “And don’t forget to smile.”
   Chen gave him a quick salute. The tattoos of red and white dragons on his forearms continued up to his shoulders, before merging right over his chest. The Taipei biker-gang body art was definitely an eye-catcher, and in sharp contrast with Diaz’s bronzed but virgin skin. Up on the bridge, Mario Mendoza remained at the controls.
   Wearing a pair of navy shorts and a white shirt, Ibarra walked up to the starboard side of the motorsailer as a Marine Protector— class patrol boat from the US Coast Guard pulled up alongside his ship. He had recognized the eighty-seven-foot-long cutter from a distance as it radioedErasmus to prepare for a routine safety inspection.
   Since the seas were calm, they were able to connect the vessels with mooring lines and buoys. Three armed inspectors hopped aboard. The one in charge, Petty Officer Jim Montoya, stepped up to him with a clipboard and a pen. He was tall and well-tanned, dressed in a solid dark-blue Operational Dress Uniform and a matching cap bearing his rank.
   “Morning, sir,” he said before looking down at his form and saying, “Under Title Fourteen of the United States Code, we’re authorized to board vessels subject to the juris—”
   “It’s no problem, Lieutenant,” Ibarra interrupted before pointing at Diaz. “That’s Lieutenant Jorge Diaz, Spanish Navy, retired. We know the rules. We’re just out on a pleasure-fishing trip. Please carry on.”
   Montoya glanced over at Diaz as he gave him a brief salute from his chair on the rear deck next to Chen. Both were hanging on to tall fishing rods.
   Montoya just nodded and turned back to Ibarra.“Will get right on it.”
   As Ibarra went over the paperwork and permits ofSanto Erasmus with Montoya, his two inspectors worked their way through the vessel, conducting a quick safety inspection that included the Boston Whaler, the engine room, and all cabins. But he was able to keep the inspectors from roaming too long inside the main salon. And as had been the case on the occasions this had happened to Ibarra and his crew,Erasmus passed with flying colors.
   Twenty minutes later, as the smuggler watched the cutter get under way, they resumed their course to Virginia.PERSIAN GULF, FIVE MILES FROM ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
   They came in from the north at a depth of fifteen feet holding six knots.
   Cmdr. Jake Russo sat behind Lt. Gustavo Pacheco piloting the SDV, the battery-powered submersible“wet boat” cruising silently to the HVT — high-value target — coming up on their bow. Upon receiving the green light from Prost, a Super Stallion had lowered them fifteen miles from their target into the dark waters as a single unit — the SDV and a team of eight SEALs dressed for violence.
   Breathing in slowly through his LAR-V Draeger, a front-worn breathing apparatus that ran on 100 percent oxygen, Russo checked their GPS positioning on the SDV’s advanced electronics panel.
   As he exhaled, his breath was recycled into the closed circuit, which filtered the carbon dioxide and injected a small amount of oxygen before recycling it back to him. This eliminated the bubbles of open-circuit scuba systems.
   “Thirty seconds,” he spoke into the microphone built into his mask, connecting him to the other members of his team.
   Pacheco killed the motor, allowing the midget sub to drift in the dark waters.
   The moment the SDV reached a position a hundred feet from the yacht’s stern, Russo ordered the SEAL team into position, minus the copilot, who would remain with the minisub.* * *
   Wearing only a plush robe on the rear main deck of his megayacht, Omar Al Saud stood behind the bar and mixed a double bourbon and Coca-Cola, ignoring the bodyguards patrolling the vessel armed with Uzi Pro submachine guns.
   Launched in 2013 by leading German shipyard Lürssen, theAzzam was not only the largest private yacht in the world but also the fastest, capable of reaching speeds of thirty-two knots. At a cost of more than six hundred million dollars and three years to build, it represented the very finest in luxury and high technology in all of its seven levels. And being Al Saud’s primary base of operations, it included the latest in high-tech communications and security, including its own missile-defense system.
   And that’s all great, Al Saud thought. Except that the satellite internet connection was down, preventing him from making his evening calls to Riyadh City.
   “How long?” he asked one of his guards.
   “They’re working on it, sir. Any moment now.”
   Sighing, Al Saud shook his head at the irony of owning a six-hundred-million-dollar boat, plus the half dozen techs working inside the electronics room on the lower level, but the damn internet was broken.
   Walking across the deck, he dropped his robe and stepped down into a warm, bubbling spa, relaxing in the swirling water, sipping his drink. He was alone tonight. No guests, friends, or even the whores, whom he had dispatched to the mainland two hours earlier. After the failed attempt onLincoln, he needed time to think and regroup. The attack onTruman andStennis had put a significant dent in America’s war machine, and soon his Russian crew would go after a third carrier. But given his submarine’s proximity to theVinson’s battle group approaching the strait of Taiwan, Al Saud had agreed to Deng’s request to go after it rather thanRoosevelt, if possible. To that end, he had already used his satellite phone to message the request to Sergeyev— whenever he surfaced — and also to the captain of the rendezvous ship scheduled to resupplyK-43 near the Philippines. If Sergeyev and his crew could only pull off just another miracle…
   And then there’s still Ibarra’s mission, he thought, thinking of the capable smuggler as he closed his eyes and let the hot water work its magic.
   Russo removed his diving mask and hooked it to his vest before breaking the calm surface gradually, without ripples— just enough to survey the massive utility/swim platform along the ship’s stern under the star-filled night.
   Two personal watercraft and a runabout boat monopolized the port side of the sixty-foot-wide platform. But his eyes focused on the two figures a dozen yards away, wearing dark clothes and standing by the starboard side, flanking the steps leading up to the yacht. According to the intel Prost had forwarded, which included real-time UAV coverage ofAzzam, the mammoth yacht had a total of seven levels and at least a dozen armed guards.
   Exhaling slowly through his Draeger, the SEAL commander glided toward the runabout on the opposite side of the platform from the guards, carefully removing the Hecker& Koch MP5SD-N 9 mm compact submachine gun strapped to his side.
   His head now just a couple of feet from the edge of the platform, Russo held the pistol grip with his right hand and placed his left one under the barrel.
   Keeping the weapon submerged, he extended the retractable metal stock of the version of the venerable MP5 specifically designed for the US Navy, and pressed it against his right shoulder. Then, very slowly, almost imperceptibly, he raised the weapon enough to settle his shooting eye behind the PVS14 night-vision monocular attached to the top of the MP5SD-N. The guards came into focus, now forty feet diagonally from his vantage point.
   The monocular amplified the available light, turning the darkness into palettes of green as he panned the scope picture between them, working the timing for the shots.
   Flipping the safety and making sure that the fire-selection level was set in semiautomatic mode— or single-shot — Russo leveled the integrated stainless steel sound suppressor, designed to be fired with water inside, on the closer of the two guards.
   Then he tapped his throat mic once, marking the start of the raid.
   A moment later, water splashed on the starboard side of the platform. Both guards immediately swung toward the noise, away from Russo, Uzi Pros ready as they stepped up to the edge to inspect the dark waters.
   Russo fired once, scoring a direct hit into the back of the guard’s head, the momentum pushing him and the Uzi Pro overboard.
   He switched targets just as the guard fell right on top of Pacheco and another SEAL, who caught him to avoid unnecessary splashing.
   Russo squeezed the trigger again, scoring a second head shot. And once again, the energy transfer pushed the guard over the edge and into the waiting hands of his team, who dragged him under quietly.
   The SEAL commander paused, his eyes surveying the vacated platform, waiting to see if any of the 176 wireless security cameras identified in the blueprints of the high-tech yacht had captured the event.
   The silence that followed made him grin, for he knew why the yacht’s internet wasn’t working, as well as the cameras and anything else with a signal.
   Two EA-18G Growlers, specialized electronic warfare versions of the dual-seat F/A-18F Super Hornet, were flying a racetrack pattern thirty miles northeast ofAzzam, blasting the yacht with their AN/ALQ-99 High Band and Low Band jamming pods.
   Satisfied the element of surprise remained intact, he tapped his mic again and whispered,“Let’s roll.”* * *
   A noise made him sit up in the spa, and Al Saud saw his men moving about with sudden purpose. Turning to the closest guard, he said,“What is happening?”
   “Maybe nothing, sir, but the video cameras have stopped working. Could be related to the internet problems.”
   For the love of…
   Al Saud’s pulse quickened as he thought of another possible explanation for the evening’s electronic blues. But he had been very careful, staying clear of the scene of the crime, just another yacht enjoying a Mediterranean cruise. Then he had left the area well before any of those missiles had reachedLincoln. And by the time the Americans had figured out what had hit them, he had landed in Jeddah and even changed helicopters just to be on the safe side—
   Before he finished the thought, he saw three guards collapse at the edge of the deck overlooking the stern, the backs of their heads exploding in small clouds of crimson.
   Leaping from the spa, the naked Al Saud rushed belowdecks as alarms blared across the large cruiser.* * *
   Russo moved methodically across the teak floors of the large salon on the main level. He led a four-man stack, covering the front, while Pacheco and a third SEAL handled their flanks and a fourth operator took the rear. A second team of three managed the violence one level above.
   His trained eyes looked past the luxurious interior, ignoring the lavish furnishings as he searched for—
   A guard emerged from behind a glass and steel bar, his features washed in hues of blue by accent lights.
   Russo put two rounds through his chest as Pacheco handled a second threat coming at them from behind a grand piano along the panoramic windows lining the starboard side of the massive room.
   The team above reported three more guards down, bringing the count to ten.
   Russo reached the two glass doors at the front of the salon leading to the helipad… and paused. The craft was still tied down. Checking with his man at the SDV, he got confirmation that the PWCs and the runabout boat were still secured to the stern platform, where the SEALs had also shed some of their underwater gear.
   “Clear,” his team above reported.
   “So, where is the bastard?” Pacheco whispered behind him.
   Russo frowned at his decision to head straight for the two main levels to cut off any chance of Al Saud reaching the bow helipad, while his guy in the water managed any attempt to escape by water.
   “Below,” he said to his stack, before ordering the second team to check the top two levels.
   Rushing back into the salon, they made it to the level below without encountering any resistance, checking ten cabins, each with a spectacular view of either the Abu Dhabi skyline or the ocean.
   But no sign of Omar Al Saud.
   Too long, he thought.This is taking too long. They approached the final set of stairs winding down to the lowest level, and Russo came up to two guards protecting the landing. They fired their Uzis in unison.
   He jumped back up as a volley of 9 mm rounds pounded the wood veneer on the stairwell wall where he had just been.
   “Having fun, boss?” Pacheco asked, reaching for an MK3A2, the waterproof version of the standard MK3 concussion grenade.
   Russo checked himself, and Pacheco pulled the ring atop the cylindrical weapon, counted to three, and then tossed it down the steps.
   The eight ounces of TNT detonating inside the stairwell reverberated in his ears as the SEAL commander paused before rushing through the haze, finding the guards rolling on the floor, disoriented and unable to stand.
   He let his team handle them, focusing on the hallway leading beyond the landing, spotting three more guards huddled by a pair of metal double doors a dozen feet away, seemingly disoriented.
   Russo and Pacheco fired their suppressed MP5SD-N weapons in unison as they ran toward them, the barrage lasting just two seconds. Kicking the bodies aside, Russo reached for the door handle and signaled to Pacheco, who removed a second MK3A2.
   Inching it open just enough to toss the grenade inside, Russo let go before both stepped back into the hallway.
   The blast swung the heavy doors outward, and Russo grabbed one before it closed, scurrying inside. Scanning the smoky interior, he ignored four more guards rolling by the side of a large interior pool with their hands over their ears.
   The smell of seawater tickling his nostrils mixed with the cordite hazing the air.
   Though the smoke, he saw an Aurora-3C personal submarine hanging from a thick cable, connected to an electric winch on a steel beam running the width of the compartment.
   “Shit,” Pacheco said, pointing his MP5SD-N at the bubbling surface a dozen feet from the minisub, where lights suddenly glittered below, under another cable already in the water.
   Russo instinctively opened fire, and so did Pacheco and the other two operators, emptying their magazines in the hopes of collapsing the acrylic clear dome of the runaway minisub. But instead of a sudden burst of bubbles, the lights slowly dimmed as the getaway vehicle vanished in the dark waters.
   The SEAL commander stood there for a moment, as alarms continued blaring across the vessel. The second team, upon reaching the yacht’s top level, reported a flurry of activity by the shoreline, presumably coastal law enforcement.
   Pacheco leaned over and said,“Don’t know about you, boss, but I’m getting that sitting-fucking-duck loving feeling again.”THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   President Cord Macklin sat in the Treaty Room with DNI Hartwell Prost and Secretary of Defense Pete Adair. Like most of his predecessors, the president used the historical room as a private study, a place to work alone or in the company of his closest advisers.
   While Adair briefed the president on Chinese movements in the South China Sea, an aide to Prost stepped into the room, passed him a folded note, and conferred with him in a hushed voice.
   The aide left and all eyes turned to the DNI, who read it, then sat staring at it in obvious disbelief.
   “Hart?” Macklin asked. “Anything you wish to share with the class?”
   He looked up and caught the president’s eye. “One of our space-based assets picked up an unusual satellite phone message originating from the Virginia Beach area. They located the receiver about six hundred nautical miles west of Lisbon, Portugal.”
   “Did they get a fix on the receiver?” the president queried.
   “Yes, for a short period of time,” Prost replied in a tempered voice. “They’re certain it was a ship headed toward our Eastern Seaboard. The message was brief, but the course and speed were confirmed. After the transmission ended, they lost track of the ship.”
   “What did it say?” Macklin asked.
   Prost looked down and read,“Entering bay from sea trials in four days.”
   “That’s it?”
   “That’s it. And the message is two days old.”
   “But it’s plenty,” SecDef Adair said. “The only vessel of significance currently undergoing sea trials out of NS Norfolk is theFord, and it’s indeed planning to return to port at midnight tomorrow, so the intel looks good. Plus, the carrier is most vulnerable during transitions in and out of the base because it lacks the concentric protection of its escorts.”
   “Dammit,” Macklin cursed then glanced at Prost. “Hart, I don’t care what you need to do, we’d better locate the person who made that satellite call.”
   Adair nodded.“We’ve kept theFord’s whereabouts hush-hush, sir. Always going out to sea at night and returning to port at night with just their navigation lights on to avoid attention. From shore, it looks like any other ship. And we’re keeping her in one of our remote piers, out of sight from the general public and even our own people. If someone’s talking, my guess is that it’s a crew member, and since the carrier is just going through sea trials, the crew is minimal.”
   “Then we need to take a close look at everyone on the vessel,” the president said. “Who knew what, why and when, and more to the point, who did they tell?”
   “I’m on it,” Prost answered. “I’ll contact NCIS and have their people put a priority on this. I’m also going to work with the Coast Guard, see if we can locate the ship that received the message.”
   “We have to get on top of this intelligence breach,” Macklin said with a frustrated expression. “Bastards have already come after us with suicide planes, with some ghost submarine, and with Iranian missiles. God knows what they’ll try next.”
   An aide walked in and whispered something to Secretary Adair, who turned to the president and said,“Ardent has cleared the canal. The convoy’s under way again.”
   President Macklin smiled for the first time that day.“Well, good news for a—”
   Prost’s phone dinged twice. He looked at it and frowned.
   “What now?” Macklin said.
   The DNI sighed, then said,“It’s about Night Out. HVT got away.”
   To minimize any leaks, knowledge of Prince Omar Al Saud’s likely involvement had been kept within Prost’s secret dealings on Thirty-Eighth Street, the people in this room, plus Secretary of State Brad Austin. And that included the decision to move forward with Operation Night Out, the kidnapping of a member of the Saudi royal family by SEAL Team Six.
   “Fuck!” Macklin growled. “How? I thought we had that yacht covered from every angle.”
   “Minisub, sir. Not in the blueprints.”
   “Clever bastard,” Adair said.
   The muscles in Macklin’s jaw worked as he clenched his teeth in anger.
   Slowly he stood and walked up to the 1868 painting of thePeacemakers, by George P. A. Healy, depicting Abraham Lincoln conferring with his generals. The president had had it hung next to his own photo posing in front of the F-105G.
   For a moment, he tried to imagine the level of pressure that a Lincoln or a Wilson or a Roosevelt had felt during some of our nation’s darkest hours.
   Or a Kennedy.
   His eyes shifted to Aaron Shikler’s masterpiece that he had ordered hung in this room: JFK with his arms crossed and his head bowed in thought.
   And now it’s my turn in the barrel.
   Turning to Prost and Adair, Macklin said,“I did not start this war. But I sure as hell am going to finish it.” Pointing at the door, he added, “Now go and do what you must to get it done.”* * *
   Prost got in the rear of his sedan and told the driver to take him to the brownstone on Thirty-Eighth Street. He needed to think and regroup. The message from Cmdr. Jake Russo, via Capt. Blake, indicated that they had taken out pretty much everyone aboard except the damn HVT.
   “Splendid,” he mumbled as he left the White House behind.
   “Sir?” the driver asked, looking at him in the rearview mirror.
   Prost ignored him, just as he tried very hard to put the failed mission behind him and focus on the next steps. Unfortunately for the DNI, the only image that filled his mind was that of the late William F. Buckley Jr.
   Operation Night Out had indeed all the earmarks of a bundled agency job.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), 300 MILES WEST OF MANILA
   Petty Officer Second Class Marshon Chappelle leaned back in his chair, eyes closed, listening to a very different concert this afternoon: pods of western gray whales entering their winter breeding grounds after their yearly migration from Russia.
   The music of the large baleen creatures was one of clicks, faint whistles, and pulse calls. Each lasted about two minutes at a fundamental frequency ranging from ten to forty hertz, as reported byMissouri’s BQQ-10 bow-mounted spherical active/passive sonar array. The lowest frequency sound a human ear could detect was around twenty hertz, but the system easily captured them, providing Chappelle with the full range of their courting songs — truly a perk of the job.
   Across the control room, Cmdr. Frank Kelly stood arms crossed, regarding his operators from his position next to his XO, Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti.
   Kelly was in a foul mood. It had been more than four hours since breaking off from the tanker and starting his racetrack pattern, but aside from distant contacts off the coast of Vietnam, there had been no sign of anything remotely resembling a Type 212A submarine. And to put a cherry on his shit cake, the COMSUBPAC had not been pleased at his continued resistance to get his butt over to guardStennis, instead of toiling around in the middle of the South China Sea wasting the taxpayers’ money. After a short and somewhat heated negotiation, Kelly had bought the Mighty Mo five hours before having to set course at flank speed toward the wounded carrier, and that meant he could hang in the area for less than one more hour.
   “What do MLB and the US Navy have in common, boss?” Giannotti asked.
   Kelly pinched the bridge of his nose.“Not in the mood, Bobby.”
   “Three strikes and you’re out,” Giannotti responded anyway. “You’ve struck out twice with COMSUBPAC. I wouldn’t make it a habit, boss.”
   Kelly shrugged.“I can handle a COMSUBPAC ass-chewing, Bobby. What I can’t handle is that bastard running loose after what he did to us… to my family.”
   Tilting his head toward his commander, and leaning back in an exaggerated manner, the XO glanced down and said,“Well, sir, for what it’s worth, the admiral still left you with a little ass.”
   The two closest sailors manning the weapons systems chuckled.
   “Fuck off, Bobby.”
   “Aye, sir.”
   Kelly checked his watch, then turned toward the sonar station.“Chappy’s in one of his trances,” he observed. “Hopefully he’ll find something. We’re running out of time.”
   “Doubt it, sir,” Giannotti replied. “Not while he’s getting a woody.”
   “What are you talking about?”
   “Last I checked, he was listening to humping whales.”
   “I didn’t know there were humpback whales in these waters.”
   Giannotti laughed.“No, sir.Humping whales, as in copulating.”
   Kelly looked up and found Giannotti’s gaze as the strapping Italian American grinned. “C’mon. Are you shitting me?”
   “Can’t make that stuff up, boss. The boy’s gifted, all right, but sometimes I really worry. I mean, look at him.”
   Kelly turned back to see the native from Harlem, headphones on, eyes closed, leaning back, hands on his lap, palms up, fingers stretched. For a second the commander of the Mighty Mo thought the kid’s lips were moving.
   “Yeah,” Giannotti added. “Forty-five-million-dollar sonar system and he’s listening to whales screwing.”
   Kelly glanced down at his watch. He had less than forty minutes before he had to change course or there would be hell to be paid with COMSUBPAC, who would get in trouble with Commander, US Pacific Fleet, who would in turn get in trouble with Commander, US Pacific Command, and so on. The American armed forces, like most military institutions around the globe, had a chain of command when it came to ass-chewings.
   Turning back to his sonarman, Kelly silently prayed that the kid from Harlem would give him something— anything — he could use to convince his superiors to let him hunt a submarine that every last fiber of his being told him had to be in the area preparing for a hunt of its own.* * *
   The clicks and whistles flowed in stereo through his headphones, transporting Chappelle to another world. He imagined the forty-foot-long creatures dancing in the deep, their music streaming in patterned sequences that repeated in bouts lasting hours, and even days.
   But somewhere in the middle of this undersea romantic serenade, he detected another sound, mellower, deeper, but faint, distant. A tenor saxophone came and went amid the clicks and pulses of the baleen whales, there one second and gone the next, floating somewhere beyond the realm of the mammals, at times almost in harmony with their wooing ballad. But there was no hiding the cavitation of a large seven-blade screw cruising at two hundred feet below the surface. And, a moment later, the vessel’s hydrogen fuel cells blew gently in his ears.
   Leaning forward, he said,“Contact! Bearing zero-four-zero. Range five-three miles. Speed one-zero knots. Depth two-one-zero feet. Definitely our girl, sir.”* * *
   Kelly jumped into action.“Turn to intercept. All ahead flank and set depth to six-zero feet.”
   Giannotti relayed the commands to the pilot and copilot, while Kelly stepped behind the electronics technicians manning the radio station.“Who’s in that grid now?” he asked.
   One of the sailors looked over his right shoulder and said,“TheMorgenthau, sir. Sailing two hundred fifty miles west of the Philippines.”
   With a look of confusion, Kelly asked,“But… isn’t that a Coast Guard cutter?”
   “Yes, sir,” the technician replied.
   “From Subic Bay?”
   “Honolulu, sir.”
   “What’s it doing so far from home?”
   “Maybe the admiral ordered it to go meet up withStennis, since you refuse to follow orders?” Giannotti offered with a shrug, before looking at his watch and whispering to Kelly, “and speaking of that, boss… our time’s almost up.”
   Kelly frowned at his XO.
   “Negative, sir,” the electronics technician replied, checking his system before adding, “Morgenthau isn’t going afterStennis. It’s been decommissioned.”
   “Decommissioned?” Kelly said. “When?”
   “Don’t know that, sir, but it says here it’s been purchased by the Republic of Vietnam.”
   “Vietnam?”
   “Yes, sir. A skeleton crew’s doing the delivery.”
   Kelly made a face and looked at Giannotti.“Wasn’tMorgenthau used heavily during the Vietnam War, Bobby?”
   “Yep,” Giannotti said. “My uncle was on it.”
   Kelly shook his head.“Of course he was.”
   “The ship got a bunch of commendations for its long service there,” the XO continued. “And now it’s being purchased by the same asshole that Uncle Lou, rest in peace, spent his career fighting.” Giannotti made the sign of the cross and looked up at the overhead pipes. “We truly live in a screwed-up world, sir,” he added.
   “Copy that,” Kelly replied. “And what’s even more screwed up is thatMorgenthau is the only warship within pissing distance of the bastards who made Swiss cheese ofStennis and blew upNorth Dakota.” The comment inexorably made him think of his family back in Danbury. He knew that by now the whole Kelly gang would be in tears, including his girls. His late nephew, Charlie, had been like an older brother to the twins. And speaking of older brother, his operational orders prevented Kelly frommaking contact with his brother, who had to be a complete mess by—
   “What are your orders, sir?” Giannotti asked, tapping his watch again, his eyes pleading with Kelly not to piss off COMSUBPAC a third time.
   Looking down at the sailor, Kelly ordered,“ContactMorgenthau as soon as we reach periscope depth, and brief them on the situation… and pray to God they have weapons aboard.”
   Shifting his gaze to his XO, he added,“And then get me on the horn with the admiral.”THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   President Cord Macklin sat alone in the Treaty Room watching the scroll on the bottom of the TV, drinking his first cup of coffee. Normally he enjoyed his morning caffeine, but lately he had a permanent sour taste in his mouth. He wondered, often, how a president like Roosevelt or Truman would have done the job in the age of the internet and cameras on every mobile phone. Information constantly flowed— and most of it not good. Every decision analyzed and criticized in minutes, not days or even hours.
   A knock interrupted his thoughts. When he looked up, he saw General Les Chalmers in his Air Force Service Dress Uniform standing in the doorway looking tired and concerned.
   Macklin managed a faint smile.“Morning, Les.”
   “Good morning, Mr. President,” Chalmers replied.
   “What’s on your mind?” he asked, pointing to a chair across from him.
   “We’re seeing more activity at the Chinese missile sites,” Chalmers explained, sitting down. “In addition, the Chinese destroyerQingdao is closing on theVinson group currently approaching the strait. Also, the aircraft carrierLiaoning is steaming south from Shanghai escorted by a Type 096 ballistic submarine.
   “That’s their brand-new sub, sir, which approaches the capabilities of our Ohio-class subs, packing twenty-four ballistic missiles. TheLiaoning’s expected to reach the strait in twenty-four hours, along with its complement of twenty-four Shenyang J-15 fighters, which are based on the Sukhoi-33—very capable birds.
   “In addition, they have deployed over thirty Su-30MKKs and a similar contingent of Su-35S Flanker-Es to Fuzhou. That’s on top of the fighters already stationed there. They’ve also trucked over a million soldiers along the coast between Fuzhou and Shantou, supported by artillery, plus over twohundred amphibious-warfare ships. And further to the southeast, there has been a significant increase in naval activity at Yulin.”
   “Jesus,” Macklin said.“That’s a hell of a lot of flexing.”
   “It’s almost like D-day flexing, sir, Chinese-style. Our friends in Taiwan have been burning up the phones at State and at the Pentagon. I want to counter their movements with more air force assets in the immediate region. This time around, we no longer have the option to run GPS interference, like we did in ’96 to screw with the Chinese navigation systems.”
   Macklin remembered it well. During the Third Taiwan Strait Crisis, back in the Clinton years, the US had owned the only GPS satellite constellation, made up of thirty-one satellites in geosynchronous orbit above Earth. Therefore, it had been able to adjust the encryption of the satellites covering the Taiwan Strait to mess with the guidance systems of the missiles that China fired at Taiwan, as well as the navigation systems of their airplanes and ships. It resulted in a huge embarrassment for the PLA. In response to that, China had begun developing and launching its own GPS constellation, calledBeiDou, named after the Big Dipper. At the last count,BeiDou had nineteen operational satellites with plans to expand to worldwide coverage in five years with a total of thirty-five satellites.
   “Back in ’96, China had around forty short-range ballistic missiles that could reach Taiwan, sir,” Chalmers added. “But we splashed them with our GPS interference. They now have roughly twelve hundred SRBMs, plus another four hundred land-attack cruise missiles capable of reaching our basesin Japan, Korea, and Guam. And their limited GPS constellation does cover the region.”
   “I got it,” Macklin said. “What about surveillance coverage? How far can they see?”
   “Their space assets have full coverage of their roughly nine hundred thousand square miles of coastal waters, as well as coverage over the Taiwan Strait, with plans to expand in the next few years to encompass all the way to the Philippines. Back in ’96, China had a total of ten satellites. Today they have almost 180. By comparison, the Russians have 140 and we have 570. And a few years ago, they began launching their Leung class of satellites to safeguard the country’s maritime rights. Those are the ones over the strait, sir, with EO, SAR, and ELINT capabilities that match our space assets.” Macklin was aware of the Electro-Optical, Synthetic Aperture Radar, and Electronic Intelligence reconnaissance technologies inside those satellites — meaning they could see through all kinds of weather conditions.
   “I think it’s safe to say that China has surpassed the Russians on satellite muscle and are moving in on us,” Chalmers added.
   “What’s Pete Adair’s take on this?”
   “He’s at Eglin today, and he agrees we need more air force muscle in the region to counter the PLA buildup,” Chalmers replied with a trace of anxiety in his voice. “Secretary Adair suggested we send our F-35As from the 34th Fighter Squadron at Hill Air Force Base and from the 61st and 62nd Fighter squadrons at Luke Air Force Base on deployment to Kadena Air Base in Okinawa. He also wants to deploy our F-22 Raptors from Hickam Air Force Base in Hawaii to bolster the ones we keep at Kadena. Though I’m not sure if we want that many of those expensive assets that close to mainland China, especially given their cruise-missile capabilities.”
   “That’s what they’re for, to rattle nerves and cause confusion,” Macklin replied firmly. “We have them as a deterrent, and we might as well use them to advertise that fact loud and clear. Let them see those planes with their damn surveillance satellites. Just make sure we have enough missile defenses to protect them in case someone gets trigger-happy.”
   “Yes, sir.”
   Macklin’s stern expression turned into a smile. “Besides, those Lightnings give us one hell of an edge. The enemy can’t detect them, so they don’t know when they’re being stalked by them… until it’s too late. I wish I’d had one of those back in the day. Get them over there.”
   “Yes, sir. I’m going to send the 34th, the 61st, and the 62nd, plus six KC-10s to supplement the KC-135 Stratotankers and support aircraft as soon as we can work out the logistics.”
   “Good. What aboutVinson? Do they have the navy variant?” Macklin asked, referring to the F-35C.
   “Just two, sir.”
   “Two? What the hell are they going to do with just two?”
   “They’re there for recurrence training, sir.”
   “Where are the rest of the F-35Cs we ordered for the navy?”
   Chalmers frowned.“There are two more aboardLincoln, for the same training purpose, and the rest, ah, they were split betweenTruman andStennis, sir.”
   “Christ,” Macklin hissed before standing and walking up to JFK’s painting. He crossed his own arms and gazed at the painting for a moment, before turning back to the chairman.
   “Bastards hit us where it hurts, Les. Now our turn to hit them back.”
   — 19 —USCGCMORGENTHAU (WHEC 722), 250 MILES WEST OF MANILA
   In her twenty-year career with the United States Coast Guard, Commander Briana Sasso had seen her fair share of action. The list included bagging drug runners in the Gulf of Mexico and multiple deployments in the Arabian Gulf, running patrols to discourage pirates, and training the Iraqis in how to protect their offshore oil rigs.
   From gulf to shining gulf, and everything in between, she thought. Until last week, when her CO gave her a new assignment: Deliver the legendaryMorgenthau to the Vietnamese.
   Her father had fought in the Vietnam War, and she really couldn’t wrap her head around selling a highly decorated ship likeMorgenthau—her commission for the past five years while on assignment in Honolulu — to the Vietnamese.
   “Put it in a war museum,” she had argued. “Or just sink it. Turn it into an underwater reef. Make it an attraction for recreational scuba divers.Anything but this.”
   But orders were orders.
   Briana sighed. At least now she had something to do besides dread the upcoming delivery. The call fromMissouri thirty minutes before had given the commander, and her beloved cutter, a chance for one last mission.
   Assisting in the high-priority search wereMorgenthau’s HH-65 Dolphin helicopter, which had been included in the deal made with the Vietnamese government.
   She stood on the bridge of the Hamilton-class cutter scanning the horizon with a pair of binoculars. A quarter moon hung overhead. Along with her, five other sailors scanned the sea, looking for any sign of a submarine, as the ship cruised at fifteen knots, or one-third propulsion of its dual gas turbines.
   The rest of her skeleton crew pinged the hell out of the surrounding ocean. But Briana wasn’t certain how much damage she could do if they found the sub, since the Coast Guard had removed all depth charges from the vessel before departure, leaving her with just enough ammunition in some of her guns to piss somebody off.
   She mumbled,“Semper Paratus,”—Always Prepared — the motto of the USCG, under her breath, as she pondered what they might actually do if they found the damn enemy sub.SUBMARINEK-43, SOUTH CHINA SEA, 270 MILES WEST OF MANILA
   Capt. Yuri Sergeyev peered into the periscope as it broke the surface. Under a dim moon, he surveyed the entire horizon as he made his approach to the cargo ship.
   Turning the scope back to the right, he studied M/VNuovoh Arana and smiled to himself. The ocean remained calm, and they were an hour ahead of schedule. Sergeyev’s only worry was the thought of surfacing and being seen by a passing American satellite.
   “All ahead one-third,” he ordered.
   “Aye aye, all ahead one-third,” Anatoli Zhdanov repeated.
   “Steady course zero-four-five,” the captain said evenly.
   Zhdanov eyed the skipper.“Steady course zero-four-five.”
   As the Type 212A closed in on the tramp freighter, the captain studied the ship, then ordered,“All ahead slow.”
   “Aye, all ahead slow,” Zhdanov replied.
   After the submarine decelerated, and after a moment of hesitation, he said“Surface.”
   Zhdanov nodded.“Aye, surface.”
   The freighter barely made headway when Sergeyev brought the Type 212A along the starboard side of the rusting ship. When the vessels were finally secured to one another, Sergeyev climbed up the conning tower and took a breath of fresh air for the first time in more than two weeks.
   Turning on his encrypted satellite phone, he downloaded a message from Al Saud congratulating him onStennis and asking him to explore the opportunity to go afterVinson in the Taiwan Strait instead ofRoosevelt in the Sea of Japan. Al Saud was actually letting Sergeyev decide, based on his military experience, which target presented the higher chance of success.
   Sergeyev felt a wave of relief that his boss considered the attack onStennis a success, even though he had not sunk her. The Russian captain now considered the option to change targets as he went aboardNuovoh Arana and made his way to the bridge.
   Captain Boris Orlov, an old Soviet Navy associate also employed by Al Saud, escorted Sergeyev to his sea cabin, where they each had a glass of Stolichnaya vodka before Orlov lit a cigarette.
   “We also have received a message aboutVinson,” Orlov said. “The carrier is expected to reach the Taiwan Strait in less than twenty-four hours. It’s currently two hundred miles northeast of Hanoi.”
   “So, it is confirmed?” Sergeyev asked, making sure that the carrier was indeed headed to the strait. Otherwise, he would proceed with his original plan and head to the Sea of Japan.
   “Our employer is very well connected,” the captain declared, his face nearly obscured by a haze of stale smoke. “But the next target is up to you.”
   Sergeyev considered that and said,“As soon as we’re replenished, I’ll set course for a position on the northern side of the strait, off Taipei, and drift in the southern coastal current. If it looks like I can take her by surprise, like I did withStennis, I will proceed. Otherwise I will continue to the Sea of Japan.”
   Orlov casually flicked his cigarette over a bronze ashtray.“I’m sure you will succeed either way.”
   Someone knocked on the open joiner door. Sergeyev turned to see the ship’s cook. The tall and lanky man stood outside the cabin with a large covered platter.
   “Come in,” Orlov demanded, and then crushed his cigarette in the ashtray. “Leave the food on the table,” he grunted. The bony cook silently complied and left the cabin.
   The men discussed the operation over a meal ofrassolnik, piroshki, smoked herring, dark bread, and Kusmi tea. They were about to enjoy another glass of vodka when the frenzied first mate rushed into the cabin.
   “We have a ship approaching us!” he exclaimed. “It’s an American Coast Guard cutter! They tried to contact us on the radio, and they asked us to identify ourselves.”
   “US Coast Guard?” Orlov growled. “What the hell is it doing in these waters?”
   “How far out are they?” Sergeyev demanded.
   The frightened mate nervously wiped sweat from his forehead.“About a mile off the port bow.”
   Speechless, Sergeyev wavered while he calculated his chances of escaping without being detected.
   A mile away and no way out.
   Orlov became furious, pounding the table with a fist.“Why didn’t you tell me sooner?”
   “I didn’t have time,” the mate replied as he cast his eyes downward. “They were on an opposing course and suddenly changed course directly toward us. We don’t know why. They intend to board us and conduct an inspection.”
   “Damn!” Sergeyev blurted, as he leapt to his feet and rushed out of the cabin.At least we’re hidden on the starboard side!
   He shoved three slack-jawed sailors aside as he burst through the door to the deck.Nuovoh Arana’s floodlights bathed the submarine below in yellowish light. Racing down to his vessel, he shouted, “Stop the supplies and refueling!”
   He landed just forward of the conning tower and yelled at his stunned crew,“We have a Coast Guard ship! A US Coast Guard ship closing on us!”
   “But, sir,” one of his men said, “we’ve only loaded two torpedoes. We have four more to—”
   “Leave them! Stand by to get under way! Move it!”
   Sergeyev hurried up the tower and slid down the ladder to his battle station in the control/attack center, shouting,“Get topside and cast off the lines! Emergency dive!”
   Thunderstruck by the unexpected orders, Zhdanov and Popov arrived on the deck seconds later. The crew members tossed off the mooring lines, while another man disconnected the fueling hose. Frightened, the crew rushed aboard the submarine, and Zhdanov closed the hatch as he yelled,“Cleared to dive!”
   “Pull the plug!” Sergeyev exclaimed, and checked his wristwatch. He stared at the second hand, knowing it was going to be close. If the crew of the cutter spottedK-43, Sergeyev’s mission would be compromised.
   “Radishchev isn’t here,” Popov hastily reported to the skipper. “I think he was in the ship’s head.”
   “Well, it’s too damn late now!” Sergeyev snapped. “Emergency dive!” he added, looking around the control/attack center as Orlov’s words echoed in his mind.
   What the hell is it doing in these waters?
   The food stores and supplies stacked on deck floated away asK-43 dipped below the surface. Sergeyev hoped the flotsam would disperse before the crew of the cutter saw the debris.
   The instant they reached a depth of forty feet, Sergeyev ordered,“All stop. Not a sound.”
   The stealthy submarine silently slipped away at ten knots on pure inertia.USCGCMORGENTHAU (WHEC 722), 270 MILES WEST OF MANILA
   Commander Briana Sasso watched from the bridge as a powerful floodlight shining fromMorgenthau’s bow swept the port side of a freighter identified as M/VNuovoh Arana. It floated right on the course provided byMissouri.
   The light played across the ocean in both directions, stopping on an area of disturbed water near the stern of the freighter. Various boxes and residue floated in the water.
   What the hell?
   Suspicious, Briana checked with her sonarman.“Contacts?”
   “Negative, Commander,” a seaman reported from his station, looking over his right shoulder. “All quiet below.”
   “Are you certain?” she asked. “But this is the location, right?”
   “Location confirmed, ma’am. But no contacts. If it’s here, it’s not moving. There are no cavitations except for us, plus the screws of container ships and tankers thirty miles northeast, along the shipping lanes.”
   Silently cursing her predicament, she asked,“Has the freighter responded to our calls?”
   “Negative, Commander. Radio silence.”
   “Dammit,” she hissed, feeling very exposed. A submarine she could not detect lay in wait somewhere in the vicinity. If she had some of the damned depth charges that her superiors had removed from the ship before she sailed out of Honolulu, Briana could dump a few and either scare it off and force it to turn its screws, or even get it to surface. She stared at the floating debris and wondered if she had simply stumbled onto a black-market ship, and now its panicked crew was dumping illegal cargo.
   While her sonar operator continued scanning the depths, Briana ordered a boarding team armed with M4 carbines to inspect the freighter. She also called battle stations, which meant manning only the two M2 Browning .50-caliber machine guns, since the Coast Guard had also removed the ammo from the 25 mm M242 cannons. And even then, the Coast Guard had left her with just the wimpiest of the .50-caliber ammunition type, the M33 Ball with a 706.7 grain, useful for personnel and light material targets.
   Silently cursing her superiors, Briana watched the boarding party making its way over to the freighter on a RIB— a rigid-hulled inflatable boat. At the same time, the cutter’s HH-65 Dolphin helicopter lifted off from the flight deck and hovered near the fantail of the ship before climbing to one hundred feet and circling the freighter. But the sea now seemed calm under the moon’s silvery sheen.* * *
   Capt. Yuri Sergeyev expertly managed the ship’s remaining forward motion to position the submarine in a firing position a thousand feet from the port side of the Coast Guard cutter without using engines.
   Manning their battle stations, his crew members wondered what their skipper contemplated. Shaken by the narrow escape from the cutter, Sergeyev glanced around the compact control/attack center.
   He inspected the rows of gauges, controls, and banks of indicator lights. Six torpedoes were in their tubes, and all the systems and lights were normal. Sergeyev weighed his odds of remaining undetected or being exposed by the crew ofNuovoh Arana—or by his own guy left behind.
   “Up periscope,” he finally ordered.
   Normally calm under stress, Zhdanov hesitated a moment.
   “Up periscope, Anatoli,” Sergeyev repeated sternly.
   “Up scope, aye,” Zhdanov replied, breathing heavily.
   Sergeyev grabbed the handles as the periscope rose, and he quickly swept the open sea, focusing on the cutter.
   Shit, he thought, before saying,“Down scope.”
   “Down scope, aye,” Zhdanov said quietly.
   Facing a difficult choice, Sergeyev turned to his crew.“A boarding party from the cutter is headed for the ship. They have a helicopter in the air. We can’t afford to be compromised.”
   No one made a sound as the crew exchanged glances.
   “We need to sink that cutter,” Sergeyev added in a resigned voice. “We don’t have any choice. Otherwise, they’ll find the balance of our torpedoes and interrogate the crew.”
   Popov cautiously asked,“Do you think they can overpower the boarding party?”
   “I don’t know,” Sergeyev admitted. “But if we sink the cutter, I’m certain Captain Orlov will leave immediately — at least buy himself some time to dump the remaining torpedoes and any other cargo suggesting he was supplying a submarine. And that will also buy us time to get away… andget to our next target.”
   Without vacillating, Zhdanov said,“What about the survivors? We can’t leave them to tell their rescuers what—”
   “You’re right, Anatoli,” the captain grumbled. “We’ll have to surface… and shoot them.”
   “What about the helicopter?” Popov asked. “They can probably radio a report to other ships or airplanes.”
   Sergeyev regarded his sonar expert.“I don’t think the helicopter is armed. When they start searching for survivors, we’ll have to shoot it down as well.”
   Zhdanov stared at his captain and said,“We’ll need some Kalashnikovs.”
   Sergeyev nodded and turned to Popov.“Get three, Leonod.”
   “Aye, CAPTAIN,” Popov said as he turned to retrieve three of the eight AK-47s in the small armory.
   Sergeyev turned his attention to the cutter.“Up scope.”
   “Up scope, aye, skipper.”
   Sergeyev looked at the firing solution from the integrated control, navigation, and weapons system.“Fire one.”
   “Fire one, aye,” Zhdanov repeated, initiating the firing sequence.
   Sergeyev punched his stopwatch and took a quick look at the cargo ship. The boarding party had reached the hull of the freighter.“Fire two,” he said ten seconds later.
   “Fire two, aye.”
   The quiet night shattered when the first torpedo exploded forward of the cutter’s bridge.
   Sergeyev swung the periscope to viewNuovoh Arana. The Coast Guard boarders played their powerful flashlights toward the stricken cutter. When the second torpedo slammed into it, the leader of the boarding party ordered them back to the ship.
   Two secondary blasts lit the night, just as the water by the freighter’s propeller began churning the sea. It accelerated to flank speed.* * *
   Knocked to the deck by the first explosion, Commander Briana Sasso tried to regain her footing when the second torpedo tore through the engine room, followed by secondary explosions.
   The turbines, she thought as her team reported water pouring through two gaping holes at an alarming rate, and fires raged aft of the bridge, the stern, and also near the bow.
   Briana started shouting orders, and her skeleton crew scrambled into action, fighting the flames and racing down passageways to close watertight doors.* * *
   “Surface,” Sergeyev ordered, looking through the periscope and seeing the cutter was in flames.
   “Surface. Aye, Captain,” Zhdanov replied, the stress of the moment filling his voice.
   Sergeyev turned to face Popov.“I want you and the two designated shooters topside with me. I’m going to take us in close so you’ll have a better opportunity to take out any survivors.”
   “Aye, Captain,” Popov said hesitantly.
   When the 212A broke the surface, Sergeyev led his men topside in the sail. He immediately seized the conn and spoke to Zhdanov.“Ahead slow, come port ten degrees.”
   Zhdanov repeated the order just as the Dolphin turned and headed straight for the submarine.
   “Leonod, listen carefully,” the captain said in a terse voice, “I want the three of you to concentrate your fire on the helicopter when I give the order.”
   “Aye, Skipper,” Popov said, shouldering the weapon.
   Sergeyev waited until the helicopter began slowing by the sub.“Fire!” he shouted over the thumping rotor noise.
   The fast rattle of three AK-47s echoed across the vast open waters, the intense volume of 7.62 x 39 mm rounds fired at a combined rate of 1,800 per minute had an instant effect. The helicopter sharply banked away from the submarine.
   “Cease fire! Cease fire!” Sergeyev exclaimed as the boarding party raced back to the burning ship. “Get us closer to the cutter so we can finish this!”* * *
   Briana staggered to the closest of two .50-caliber machine guns, finding the young sailor charged with manning it lying on his side bleeding and screaming, hit by shrapnel.
   “Hang in there, son!” she shouted as smoke swirled around them. Grabbing the handles of the M2 Browning and ignoring nearby flames, she swung the gun toward the dark silhouette of the submarine.* * *
   Sergeyev considered firing a third torpedo to finish any survivors aboard but thought the better of it. He had only loaded two from the freighter and fired two, meaning he had a complement of six left for—
   The thundering reports from one of the Coast Guard cutter’s machine guns began raking the submarine, causing a flurry of ricochets and sparks in many directions.
   “Emergency dive!” Sergeyev yelled to Zhdanov, surprised that the cutter’s crew had any fight left in them, given the fire and smoke bellowing from it. “Emergency dive!” He turned to Popov and the other two men. “Clear the bridge, get below!”
   They scurried down the hatch, and Sergeyev locked it before he dropped into the control/attack center as rounds hammered the hull, the impacts lessening as it sank, until stopping altogether. The silence that followed was accompanied by the wide-eyed stares of his crew.
   Ignoring them, he said,“We bought the freighter time to get away. Nothing we can do about the survivors. Ahead two-thirds. Set depth nine-five-zero feet. Bearing zero-six-zero. Get me to the shipping lanes, Leonod. It’s time we disappear.”
   “Aye, sir.”
   “Captain,” asked Zhdanov, his pale face filmed with sweat, as was Popov’s. “Where… where are we going?”
   “To finish our mission, Anatoli. To killVinson.”* * *
   Despite the heroic efforts of the crew to extinguish the fires,Morgenthau began to take in more water than the pumps could extract from its rapidly flooding structure.
   As the cutter began to settle into the sea from her stern, Briana gave the order to abandon ship. The cutter’s motor surfboat joined the two RIBs deployed by the well-drilled crew.
   As they started loading the wounded first, Briana reached for the radio on the bridge and instructed the pilot of the Dolphin to make a run for US Naval Base Subic Bay in the Philippines and issue an alert with their fix.
   Briana also had the Dolphin pilot relay the coordinates ofNuovoh Arana and its last known heading. A minute later, she received confirmation from her pilot that they had contacted Subic Bay and two US Navy vessels patrolling the base had been deployed to rescue them and to intercept the runaway freighter. In addition, a navy C-130 Hercules turboprop maneuvering off the coast of Manila was dispatched to track it.
   Commander Briana Sasso, the last person offMorgenthau, watched with the other survivors as the historic 3,250-ton cutter spewed trapped air and vanished beneath the Pacific.
   Like her stunned crew, she felt shocked by the sudden disaster. However, as she glanced at the quarter moon and inhaled deeply, she felt grateful that the only casualty tonight had been her beloved cutter. But then again, an honorable burial at sea for the Pride of the Pacific— asMorgenthau was known— was far more dignified than the humiliation of it falling into the hands of the Vietnamese Navy.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), 260 MILES FROM THE PHILIPPINES
   She’s gone, sir,” Petty Officer Marshon Chappelle reported from his station.
   “Where? How?” Cmdr. Frank Kelly asked, standing shoulder to shoulder with Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti, hovering over the sonarman.
   “South China Sea shipping lanes, sir. There must be a couple dozen tankers and container ships moving in both directions. Can’t find anything in that noise, sir.”
   “Terrific,” Giannotti mumbled. “Now what?”
   Kelly crossed his arms, inspecting the maritime chart showing a hundred-mile-wide lane running northwest to southeast between the Philippines and the western coast of Taiwan. The northwest-bound lanes then split to the Sea of Japan, Korea, and to multiple ports in the Pacific Ocean.
   “Plot us a course to the shipping lanes,” he finally said. “Northwest heading.”
   “Are we playing his game again, boss? The admiral ain’t gonna be happy.”
   “Leave the good admiral to me, Bobby. Get rolling.”
   “Sure, boss, but why northwest? Bastards could be headed the other way.”
   Kelly just stared back at him.C’mon, Bobby, show me that you’re ready to get your own command.
   “The carriers,” Giannotti finally said, closing his eyes before adding, “Vinson in the Taiwan Strait.Roosevelt in the Sea of Japan. AndStennis struggling to reach Honolulu. All to the northwest.”
   Kelly nodded approvingly.“The favorite entrée in our ghost sub’s dinner menu.”
   — 20 —KADENA AIR BASE, OKINAWA, JAPAN
   Shortly before noon, the first pair of F-35A Lightnings from the 34th Fighter Squadron at Hill AFB, Utah and from the 61st and 62nd Fighter Squadrons at Luke AFB in Arizona landed on Runways 23 Right and 23 Left.
   The stealthy, advanced tactical jet, with a projected service life up to 2070, resembled the single-engine sibling of the twin-engine F-22 Raptor. It had the ability to sneak up to any enemy completely undetected before unleashing its impressive wave of violence, plus it could outperform prior generation jets thanks to its compact design and thrust-vectoring technology. And like its larger sister, it could fly at altitudes above 65,000 feet, 15,000 to 20,000 feet higher than other fighters.
   The lopsided combat-kill ratio of the Lightning engaged in exercises resulted from its ability to dispatch adversaries before its presence was ever detected. With the assistance of KC-10 tanker aircraft, the state-of-the-art fighters would be an overwhelming deterrent to the Chinese Sukhoi Su-35S twin-engine multi-role fighter aircraft.
   From a number of international sources, Beijing quickly learned that the Lightnings were now in the neighborhood.USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), SOUTH OF THE TAIWAN STRAIT
   I can’t believe we’re already here, Lt. Amanda Diamante thought as she performed her walk-around. She hung on to sections of her weathered Super Hornet for balance as the carrier plunged through rough seas. In the distance, the carrier’s surface escorts wallowed in the troughs between foaming, towering waves.
   On the way from the Arabian Sea to the South China Sea, the Carl Vinson Carrier Strike Group had been handed over from the US Naval Forces Central Command (NAVCENT) to the US Pacific Fleet (USPACFLT) with orders to patrol the turbulent waters along the 125-mile-wide stretch of ocean between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan.
   A dozen yards away, standing ramrod straight, arms crossed, and seemingly impervious to the bouncing flight deck, Maintenance Master Chief Gino Cardona towered next to his lanky boss, Lt. Cmdr. Ed Stone, as they supervised the preflight from behind the mirror tint of their sunglasses.
   It was typically quite windy here due to the tunnel effect created by the coasts of the PRC and the ROC. On top of that, surface currents were quite strong as this stretch of water linked the South China Sea to the East China Sea along the coast of China.
   A light mist washed across the flight deck, wetting her short auburn hair sticking to the sides of her face.
   Wiping her brow with the sleeve of her flight suit, Amanda ignored the master chief and his boss, and she took a moment to inhale the salty air and stare out to sea. A looming sun stained the sky over the South China Sea with dancing shades of orange and yellow amid swirls of white steam wafting from the catapult tracks in the deck.
   And just as she started to feel damn proud to be in the navy, Cardona shouted over the noise of the waves and the constant racket of the busy flight deck,“Not a scratch, Deedle! Not a fucking scratch!”* * *
   Ninety minutes later, she shadowed Lt. Cmdr. Juan Ricardo in a two-plane section, completing their final loop of a wide sweeping barrier combat air patrol over the southern end of the white-capped Taiwan Strait.
   Amanda eyed her FCS caution light to make sure it was off before scanning her fuel gauges. They were scheduled for aerial refueling in fifteen minutes from an F/A-18F tanker fifty-eight nautical miles out and closing on the BARCAP jets.
   She also knew that standing by on the catapult were two Super Hornets on Alert Five status, manned by none other than Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski, with Lt. Cmdr. Trey Malloy as his wingman, ready to go airborne if incoming aircraft appeared to be a threat to the strike group.
   “Sounds like the old man wants to get some stick time,” she commented to Ricardo over their frequency.
   “Yep. Better be on your best behavior, Deedle.”
   “I think Dover and Mullet are going after your perfect record on the Greenie Board, since I’m no longer a threat.”
   “Yeah. Good luck with that.”
   She chuckled, her eyes shifting toward China somewhere beyond the eastern horizon. But so far, coastal forces had been quiet.
   Eyeing the FCS caution light again, she thought,And that goes for you too.FUZHOU AIR BASE, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   “Tiangong Niner-Three, taxi into position and hold. Runway One-Seven.”
   PLA Air Force colonel Lian Guõ inched the dual throttles of her Sukhoi Su-35S multi-role air superiority fighter, steering it to the end of the runway and lining up the nose with the centerline. A moment later, her wingman, Major Zhao Ren, pulled up to the yellow lines marking the runway holding position on the taxiway. Behind him, two additional Su-35S jets would launch precisely five minutes later and remain low for as long as possible to hide in the surface clutter before going vertical to surprise the Americans from below.
   Waiting for the tower to clear her, Lian scanned her side-by-side thirteen-inch glass panels presenting her with primary flight instrumentation, the status of her twin Saturn 117S thrust-vectoring engines, weapons-control systems, navigation, and communications.
   Breathing deeply under her oxygen mask, right hand on the center control column between her thighs, and left fingers resting atop the throttle levers, Lian closed her eyes, recalling her peculiar mission briefing, handed down directly by the man she calledJiujiu, or uncle, General Deng Xiangsui.
   A graduate of the PLA Air Force Aviation Academy in 2009, Lian had been among the first sixteen women certified to fly Sukhoi jets. By 2011, her exceptional skills— and her connections — had earned her a spot in the PLAAF aerobatic team. She became its squadron leader two years later, and now led the Su-35S Tiangong Fighter Squadron in Fuzhou.
   And only yesterday, her air wing’s commanding officer had surprised her with the news that she had been selected to commence astronaut training with the China National Space Administration, a dream come true for the thirty-five-year-old pilot.
   But first I need to do this, she thought, certain that herjiujiu had had something to do with the opportunity at the CNSA, whose review board accepted less than 1 percent of its thousands of qualified applicants each year.
   Shoving the thoughts aside, Lian steeled herself to confront the American naval aviators patrolling the strait.
   “Tiangong Niner-Three, cleared for takeoff. Runway One-Seven.”
   Reading back the clearance, Lian advanced the throttles to the military setting, and the Sukhoi shot down the runway.* * *
   Aboard an E-2D Advanced Hawkeye from the Carrier Airborne Early Warning Squadron 113, the“Black Eagles,” cruising at twenty-four thousand feet, Lieutenant Commander Steve “Bear” Barlow, the twin-engine turboprop’s CICO, or combat information center officer, relaxed behind his large console. To his right sat the radar officer, the junior member of the CIC team. To his left, the air control officer, or ACO, handled the complex task of digitally linking all aircraft within the carrier air wing. Their mission was to provide early warning and command-and-control functions for the carrier strike group.
   The CIC consoles, fixed along the port side of the aircraft, were slaved to the navy’s brand-new and powerful AN/APY-9 radar. Housed in the twenty-four-foot-diameter revolving dish mounted above the fuselage, it was capable of detecting airborne targets anywhere within a three million cubic-mile surveillance envelope.
   The CIC team was at the end of a very bumpy but otherwise boring six-hour shift, waiting for a relief E-2D already en route fromVinson to assume its mission after the BARCAP Super Hornets refueled.
   Barlow yawned and stretched, not expecting any activity in the abysmal weather conditions over the strait.
   Listening to the reassuring drone of the engines, he rubbed his eyes and yawned again, before refocusing on his screen and suddenly leaning forward just as his RO said,“Incoming bogeys, sir. One hundred and sixty miles. Out of Fuzhou.”
   What the hell? Barlow thought, staring at radar returns of the dual fast-moving targets that had launched from the coastal air base in Fuzhou and were headed directly toward the BARCAP fighters over the middle of the strait.
   “Change that to bandits,” Barlow said. An unidentified aircraft was considered a “bogey” until it had been confirmed to be an enemy “bandit.” These were definitely the bad guys.
   Keying his radio, he said,“Dragon One-Zero-Eight, Liberty Bell. We have a problem.”
   It had been three days since Lt. Cmdr. Juan Ricardo’s fiancée had cut off ties with him. The time spent traveling across the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea had served him well, helping him to clear his mind and try to get over Jessie — as much as anyone could in such a short time. But as Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski had stated in his inspirational pep talk, there were far more important issues on the naval aviator’s plate now.
   And that included the tension he detected in Barlow’s normally composed and unemotional voice.
   “Dragon One-Oh-Eight,” he replied.
   “You have two bandits at your three o’clock. One hundred fifteen miles, climbing like a bat out of Chinese hell.”
   “Dragon, copy,” Ricardo said. “Bandits, not bogies, you’re positive?”
   “Yes, absolutely, from mainland China.”
   “Okay,” Ricardo replied, with a trace of anxiety in his voice.
   Bastards probably know we’re low on fuel, he thought, since it was common practice for Chinese coastal stations to keep tabs on all carrier communications.
   Then he added,“Dragon Two, we’re up the creek.”* * *
   In Dragon Two, Lt. Amanda Diamante, who had been eyeing her FCS caution light every minute since getting catapulted offVinson an hour before, checked her fuel and then glanced over at her flight leader’s jet. “Roger that, Ricky, but we’re outta gas.”
   “Dragons,” came Lt. Cmdr. Steve Barlow from the E-2D.“Go starboard heading three-four-zero.”
   “Three-forty,” Ricardo replied, and Amanda tailed him as the pair of Super Hornets began a turn to engage the two Chinese bandits head on.
   As soon as they rolled out, Ricardo’s voice came over the radio.“Okay, Deedle, let’s go combat spread.”
   “Two,” Amanda said as they separated to parallel one another.
   “They’re passing flight level one-nine-zero and climbing,”Barlow reported as the radios began to come alive.“Dragons, they’re seventy-seven miles on the nose. Have you acquired them?”
   “Yeah, I’m on it now,” Ricardo shot back.“You might want to launch the alert birds. Tell ’em to buster.”
   “We’re communicating with mother now,” Barlow said.“Twelve o’clock, out of twenty-three for sixty-five miles.”
   With a double click on the radio transmit button, Ricardo acknowledged the report.“Dragon Two, do you have our bandits?”
   “Roger that,” Amanda replied, checking her radar and glancing past Ricardo’s jet.
   The Chinese jets were now forty-seven miles out and closing fast.“Call visual when you see them.”
   “Copy that.”
   “Let’s come up on the power.”
   “Coming up on the power,” Amanda radioed back, as she eased the throttles forward to military power, sucking up fuel her bird didn’t have.* * *
   In the Carrier Air Traffic Control Center (CATCC), the air boss in PRIFLY, the control tower on an aircraft carrier, contacted the CAG, Capt. James Buchelle, who was on the bridge conferring with Capt. Peter Keegan,Vinson’s skipper. Within moments, the Alert Five aircraft were catapulted into the gloomy weather.
   A minute later, Mullet Malloy rocketed behind Dover Kowalski in full burner, shooting past the speed of sound and settling at Mach 1.5, making a straight line to the rapidly deteriorating situation seventy miles away.* * *
   Ricardo keyed his radio.“Dragon Two, Master Arm on.”
   “Copy, Master Arm on,” Amanda replied in a clipped voice.“They caught us with our pants down, Ricky.”
   Barlow chimed in from the Hawkeye.“Twelve o’clock, out of twenty-eight,” he announced in a taut voice.“You should have a visual any second.”
   Ricardo acknowledged the update with a double click on his mic button.* * *
   “Burners,” Lian ordered as they closed in on the American jets at twice the speed of sound. “Zhao, let’s pretend we’re at the air show,” she added. Major Ren had been among the aerobatic team members she had brought along to Fuzhou to help her train a new generation of fighter pilots inaerial dogfight techniques.
   “I’m with you, Colonel,” he replied.
   Pushing the throttles to the forward stops, Lian felt the burner kick as her speed shot up to Mach 2.6.
   Let’s see how they handle a tight pass at full speed.* * *
   Ricardo blinked when two Russian-made Sukhoi Su-35S“Flanker-Es” emerged from the broken clouds and blasted straight between the Super Hornets.
   “Tally!” Ricardo exclaimed as the Chinese jets flashed by in full burner, their twin sonic booms rattling his cockpit. “Whoa, close call!”
   The sleek Su-35S variant flown by the PLA’s Air Force approached the capability of the US Air Force F-22 Raptor and could outperform many Western-designed fighter aircraft in close-in aerial combat.
   And the list included the Super Hornet.* * *
   Cutting power and extending her air brakes, Lian slowed down enough to cut hard right, groaning under her oxygen mask as the g-forces piled up on her narrow shoulders. But the maneuver paid off as she placed her Su-35S directly behind one of the American fighters.* * *
   Ricardo snapped his head around.“They’re pulling into you!” he radioed to Amanda as he reefed his fighter into an aggressive move to position himself behind the Su-35S.
   “Drag them into a tight port turn,” Ricardo added, sucking oxygen. “Make them pay for it!”
   “Copy,” Amanda replied, breathing hard.
   “What type of aircraft?” Barlow interjected.
   Ricardo’s tight G suit applied immense pressure to his legs and abdomen to force blood to his head. “Flanker-Es,” he said.
   “That’s their A team,” Barlow surmised.“They have their top guns up. Are they armed?”
   Ricardo stared at the twin Sukhois’ underwing ordnance as they cut hard left behind Amanda’s jet. “That’s affirm. Four air-to-air missiles each.”
   “Dragon, we have two more bandits approaching from your five o’clock climbing almost vertically!” Barlow reported.
   “Where’s the Alert Five?” Ricardo grunted as he strained from the heavy g-forces and checking for the radar returns from the two new bandits.
   “We’re twenty-five out in burner,” Cmdr. Kowalski broke in.“Hang in there, Dragons. We’ll even this out in a sec.”
   “We’re in deep shit, Skipper,” Ricardo cautioned in a stressed voice. “We don’t have the fuel for this!”
   “And one of them has a lock on me!” Amanda radioed.
   “Break hard right!” Ricardo ordered in a tight voice.* * *
   Lian grinned under her mask. She had easily locked on to the American with the all-aspect IR seeker head of one of her Vympel R-73 air-to-air missiles.
   This is too easy, she thought as her thrust-vectoring nozzles kept her nose precisely pointed at the twin tails of the American jet making a valiant but useless effort to shake her.
   Glancing to her right, she spotted Ren holding formation as tight as during their air show days.* * *
   Groaning, Amanda snapped her Super Hornet into a punishing eight-G turn, her vision collapsing into a narrow tunnel as her G suit squeezed her, trying to help keep her from blacking out. But the Chinese fighters matched her move.
   “Dammit! I’m still locked,” she shouted, and then reversed her turn, twisting and turning the F/A-18E in and out of the clouds, but could not shake the bandits.
   “And I’m low on fuel!” she complained after another minute of useless evasive maneuvers. “Gotta get out of this fur ball!”* * *
   Lian was impressed with the American’s aerobatics, but she still matched every dive and climb, maintaining her missile lock.
   A warning icon suddenly flashed in her glass cockpit, indicating that the Super Hornet now trailing her and Ren had a lock on her Su-35S.
   “The American, Colonel! He has a lock on you!” Ren warned, his voice pitched with excitement.
   “Let’s see if he has the balls,” she said, glancing at thehúndàn—or bastard — locked on her and adding, “Bring it on.”* * *
   “Dragon One has a shot,” Ricardo reported as he eased his jet behind the pair of Sukhois. “Liberty Bell, do I have permission to fire?”
   “Negative! Negative!” Kowalski commanded instead of Barlow.“Fire only if fired upon.”
   “I’m sucking air!” Amanda shouted.“If I don’t disengage, I’m going to have to drop my new shiny bird in the drink.”
   “Negative, Dragon flight, hit the tanker! Now!” Kowalski ordered.
   “But I’m still locked, Skipper,” Amanda replied.
   A moment later, Ricardo responded,“Don’t make any aggressive moves, Deedle, and we’ll rendezvous with the tanker.”
   “Roger that,” she replied, and stopped trying to evade the Sukhois. Instead, she slowed down to conserve fuel and entered a shallow climb to meet up with the tanker, noticing the Chinese calmly remaining behind her.
   “Bastards are just trying to piss us off,” she reported.
   “Just another day in paradise,” Ricardo said, staying behind the bandits in what was now a surreal formation. Her Super Hornet in front, two Flanker-Es in a tight combat spread behind her, and her flight leader bringing in the rear.* * *
   What a bore, Lian thought, slowing the Sukhoi to remain a thousand feet behind the Super Hornet.
   “What do we do now?” Ren asked.
   “Now we let our colleagues play with the American radar turboprop,” she replied.* * *
   Barlow had his eyes on the radar screen of the E-2D and didn’t like what he saw. “Dragons, the two additional bandits are coming in from my five o’clock now, makin’ some high Mach.”
   “How far out?” Kowalski asked.
   “Thirteen miles,” Barlow reported, amazed at how fast the two fighters were closing. “They’re superson— Wait a second. One of them is slowing at our six.”
   “Okay,” Kowalski replied.“We’re heading your way to get behind them.”
   Barlow studied the radarscope for a few moments, surprised by the speed of events. His RO and ACO were giving him wide-eyed stares.
   He ignored them, concentrating on the screen and trying to suppress a gnawing sense of uneasiness. He keyed the radio.“The fast mover’s about to merge with us,” he said with his heart beating wildly. “Assholes are batshit crazy — and I hope they can hear that!”
   Four seconds later, one of the Sukhois blasted past the Advanced Hawkeye’s starboard wing with twenty feet to spare. The supersonic shockwave rocked the E-2D and made it violently yaw from side to side. As the twin turboprop’s pilot fought to control the airplane, the second Sukhoi settled behind them.
   Mother of God!
   In the CIC, Barlow choked back the instant panic he felt, then reported,“Dragons, the other fighter’s on our tail!”* * *
   “Okay, gang, settle down,” Kowalski said in a soothing voice as he approached the single Flanker-E tailing the E-2D. “They’re just making a statement, so let’s also make one. Ricky, get a lock on your bandit.”
   “Already have one. Winder. But the pilot doesn’t seem to give a shit. Very cool operator.”
   Kowalski frowned as he came up behind the Sukhoi tailing the Advanced Hawkeye and slaved the infrared seeker in the head of one of his AIM-9 Sidewinders onto the hot twin exhaust of the Flanker-E.* * *
   “All right, boys,” Lian said when hearing from the Sukhoi trailing the E-2D that a Super Hornet had missile lock on him. “That’s enough fun for one day. Return to base.”
   Zaijian húndàns, she thought, bidding farewell to the Americans as she disarmed her R-73 and tilted the center stick to the right and down, breaking away from the Super Hornet as it approached a refueling tanker. Ren remained glued to her starboard wingtip as the Sukhois headed back to Fuzhou.* * *
   As Amanda approached the tanker, the two Flanker-Es on her tail broke it off.“Bastards are bugging out.”
   “Mine also just bailed,” Barlow reported from the E-2D.
   She connected the probe and began to take fuel, relief sweeping through her at the sight of her gauges climbing back out of the red. She broke it off after three thousand pounds— enough to make it back toVinson.
   Shifting to the left, she waited while Ricardo refueled before he too retracted his probe and fell back.
   “Had enough fun for one day, Deedle?” Ricardo asked.
   “No shit,” she said. “Maybe the skipper will let us have a latte.”
   “Deedle, today you may have a double,” Kowalski offered.
   Before she could reply, Ricardo cut in and said,“Double for Deedle!”
   “Isn’t that the same as Deedle-Deedle?” Malloy asked.
   “No, dumbass,” Ricardo replied.“That would be Deedle SQUARED.”
   Amanda shook her head as they bantered at her expense and followed her flight leader back toVinson.* * *
   Lian walked away from her fighter jet and headed to operations to give a debrief of the flight to her superior officers. The room was unusually crowded today, and it included officers from the intelligence office— all interested in knowing the details of her engagement with the Americans. After spending the better part of an hour answering questions, she went to the officer’s club at the end of the flight line.
   The colonel cruised through the double doors, ignored the dozen junior officers who snapped to attention, and entered the bathroom. The adrenaline from the encounter with the US Navy jets had long worn off, leaving her tired and thirsty.
   Standing in front of the small sink, she splashed water on her face and rubbed at the sore spots left on her cheeks by the oxygen mask. Staring into her own dark eyes, the slim warrior contemplated her future. In two months, she would leave Fuzhou to start her astronaut training at the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center, the nation’s largest space vehicle launch facility in the Gobi Desert, covering 1,600 square miles and housing more than twenty thousand people. And that meant she would have to start training her replacement almost immediately.
   Exiting the restroom, Lian made her way to the long bar and sat at one end, away from everyone. She signaled the bartender, Hai, to pour her a cup of hot tea. The old man, one of herjiujiu’s former pilots from back in the day, slowly made his way to her. When she had first arrived at the base, Lian had been shocked at the severity of the man’s facial burns. He had been lucky to survive his ejection from a burning MiG-17F during the legendary aerial battle that had launched General Xiangsui’s military career.
   Regarding Lian with his one good eye, Hai poured her a cup and said in his almost guttural voice,“Good day, I hear.”
   “Good day, indeed,” she replied.
   “I also hear someone will be leaving us soon.”
   Lian frowned. The old man seemed to know everything about everyone.“I need to identify a replacement.”
   Slowly Hai tilted the curled whiskers on his scarred chin toward Major Ren, who had just entered the room and sat among his fellow pilots sharing a pitcher of beer.
   Lian raised her brows and whispered,“Good stick… but needs combat experience.”
   Nodding politely, Hai said,“A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials.” Then bowing respectfully, he returned to the other side of the bar.
   Lian sipped her tea. The old Chinese proverb made her think of her own trials as an orphan girl in the slums of Hong Kong. For a moment, she grimaced at the things she’d had to do to survive after her mother was stabbed to death in the brothel where she had worked. Lian had been only twelve years old.
   She could have ended up on the streets, nothing more than a beggar, but for the son of another prostitute. For years, she had looked up to him as almost an older brother. When her mother died, the boy, Lee Shui-bian, took her under his wing. He worked for a corrupt military warehouse manager, and the girl fell into a life of petty theft. Over the following year, they profited immensely from the black-market sale the Russian avionics and other spare parts they pilfered in the middle of the night from the vast depots at Shek Kong Airfield, the PLAAF’s Hong Kong air base.
   Until they were caught.
   The corrupt warehouse manager and Lee were taken somewhere to the back of an alley, where Lian had heard their pleading turn to whimpering and finally to silence. The base commander had then looked at Lian and asked,“Do you know why you’re still standing here and not bleeding out on the ground like your friends?”
   Lian’s voice shook as she squeaked out a simple “No.”
   “Because I know who you are. I know where you came from. You think you’ve remained hidden in your exploits? You have not!”
   The frightened thirteen-year-old had broken down and cried.
   “But more importantly,” he had added, his voice suddenly sympathetic, “because I knew your mother.”
   His name was Lieutenant Colonel Deng Xiangsui.
   As Lian savored her tea, she thumbed a quick text to herjiujiu in Beijing, the man who had turned that small-time thief into one of the PLAAF’s finest.
   Mission accomplished;-)
   — 21 —USS GERALD R. FORD (CVN 78), SEVENTEEN MILES NORTHWEST OF VIRGINIA BEACH, VIRGINIA
   Seaman Dwight Hagan, along with a dozen sailors from the EMALS team, had been sitting in the Air Department lobby for nearly two hours. Hagan was part of the technical group testing the brand-new Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System in the Ford-class carrier that had replaced traditional steam catapults.
   A man wearing faded jeans and a tight blue T-shirt stepped through the bulkhead leading to the office area.
   The twenty-one-year-old navy technician noticed two things about him. First, the large white letters spelling NCIS stenciled across his blue T-shirt. And second, the black firearm holstered on his right hip. Word around the ship was that an army of NCIS agents had arrived earlier in the day aboard two Sea King helicopters. No one quite knew what they were doing there, but nearly everyone on the ship had been given a time to be interviewed.
   “Seaman Hagan… Dwight Hagan?” he said, reading from a clipboard.
   “That’ll be me,” he replied, standing.
   “Good afternoon,” the man said in a pleasant voice. “I’m Senior Field Agent Bob Vanmeter, NCIS. Please come this way.”
   They walked to one of the small staterooms in officers’ country.
   “Have a seat and relax,” Vanmeter advised as he shut the joiner door. “This is an informal interview in regard to security measures aboard theFord.”
   Hagan folded his hands in his lap as he sat across a small table from the agent, who began with a few pleasantries, asking about Hagan’s family and where he had been born and raised. Then, after a few minutes, Vanmeter paused, looked at his folder, and then found Hagan’s gaze. “So, how you like the navy so far?”
   Hagan felt more comfortable with the agent.“I like it fine, sir. I’ve always been mechanically inclined, so working in EMALS is awesome. Plus, I like to travel. Looking forward to our first deployment after we wrap up the trials.”
   “How are we looking so far?”
   He gave him a thumbs-up.“Great ship, sir. First-class.”
   “It sounds like you know where you’re going,” Vanmeter said in a friendly voice. “And I see you have a security clearance. Secret, right?”
   “Yes, sir.”
   “Does anyone ever try to get you to divulge information you shouldn’t?” Vanmeter asked, the tone of his voice almost conspiratorial, before he leaned closer and lowered his voice. “You know, we’ve all been there. Mom wants to know if we’ll be home for Thanksgiving. High-school buddy wants to know if we’re going to the reunion. Or a guy at a bar asks about something he saw on TV and wants the inside scoop. That sort of thing.”
   Drawing a blank, Hagan slowly shook his head.“Not that I recall.”
   The agent paused a moment, glancing at Hagan’s enlisted service record. “I see from your files that you’re single.”
   “Yes, sir,” Hagan said flatly, his eyes shifting to his service folder.
   “Has anyone ever asked you about the ship’s movement?” Vanmeter suddenly asked in a different, emotionless tone of voice.
   “Sir?” Hagan replied, blinking.
   “Has anyone asked questions about the carrier’s schedule, when it’s departing or returning to port? Where it’s going?”
   Hagan shook his head… and then he thought of his girlfriend.
   “Carol,” he finally said. “She’s asked me a number of times, but just because she wants to make plans.”
   Vanmeter paused, leafing through a few sheets of paper, then back at Hagan.“Who’s Carol?”
   “My girlfriend. She just wanted to know if I was going to be home for the weekend. Again, so she could make plans.”
   “What did you say?”
   Hagan shrugged.“Everyone aboard knows we’re wrapping the trials today and will be back at port tomorrow night, sir.”
   “So, you told her yes? You would be back in time for the weekend?”
   Suddenly feeling a touch of guilt, he said,“Yes, sir. Three days ago. She’s picking me up at the pier.”
   Vanmeter’s gaze narrowed. “I see. What’s her last name?”
   “Carol, ah Carol Cline,” Hagan answered.
   The agent’s friendly smile vanished. “Does she have email?”
   “Um,” Hagan started, then realized they only communicated via text, so he told Vanmeter that.
   “Okay. Got your phone?”
   Hagan handed over his phone, which Vanmeter set aside.
   “Where does Carol live?” Vanmeter asked with casual curiosity. “Does she have an apartment, or a home?”
   “Home.”
   The agent stared at Hagan for a long moment.“Do you spend a lot of time there?”
   “Actually… no,” he replied, suddenly feeling concerned. “I’ve never been to her home.”
   “How long have you known her?”
   “About five months.”
   Vanmeter raised an eyebrow.“And you’ve never seen her place?”
   Hagan shrugged, embarrassed. He then explained, in torturous fashion, about the husband, the separation, and the ban on Carol having men in their home.
   “You live in navy housing, yes? Barracks?”
   Hagan nodded.
   “And you’ve never seen her place? So, what did you do when you wanted some alone time?” Vanmeter smiled. “I mean, I’m assuming a red-blooded American guy like you closed the deal, right? You haven’t been saving yourself for marriage, have you?”
   Hagan laughed also.“No, sir. Not saving myself. We just got a motel room for date nights.”
   “Dwight, did you use different motels or hotels?”
   “No, sir. We always used the Newport News Inn on Jefferson Avenue. They have free HBO and Starz.”
   The agent nodded, wrote down the name of the motel, and asked a number of follow-up questions. In short order, Hagan gave him the description of Carol’s yellow Mustang convertible and the number for her cell phone.
   “Do you have any recent photographs of her?” Vanmeter asked without looking up. “Any selfies of the two of you?”
   “Well, I know this sounds weird, but she’s hated having her picture taken since she was a child.”
   “Okay,” Vanmeter continued, as though he heard that sort of thing every day. “So, what does she look like? Pretty?”
   “Oh, yes, sir,” Hagan replied enthusiastically. “Very pretty. She’s on the shorter side, maybe five-four, with long, dark hair, brown eyes. In great shape. She likes to run.”
   “Nice ass?” Vanmeter asked, grinning.
   “Hell, yes. Bounce a quarter off that, I tell you,” Hagan answered enthusiastically. Suddenly they were buddies, talking about women.
   “So, where’s she from? Do you know how old she is?”
   “Um, I think she’s from Saint Louis. She said her family moved a lot when she was a kid. She’s twenty-eight,” Hagan said, relieved he knew some of the answers.
   “So, seven years older than you,” the agent pointed out. “What about family? Does she have any children?”
   “The only thing I know is that she was born in Louisiana. She never mentioned anything about her family, other than her husband. She didn’t want to talk about him.”
   Vanmeter rose from his chair, placed a reassuring hand on Hagan’s shoulder, and looked him in the eye. “Dwight, you stay here. Be back in a few.”
   “Yes, sir,” Hagan said with growing concern.
   Vanmeter picked up Hagan’s cell phone and stopped himself as he was headed out. “Dwight, what’s the access code?”* * *
   Hagan could feel his heart beating. The minutes passed slowly as he waited. His hands trembled before he clamped his left hand over his right.
   Maybe it’s all a misunderstanding and we can laugh about it later this evening.
   It took almost a half hour before Vanmeter returned to the stateroom, his jaw set.
   “Dwight, I want you to tell me everything you know about Carol, every single detail.”
   Hagan shook his head.“I don’t understand. I’ve told you everything. Can I have my phone back? I can call her.”
   The agent didn’t hesitate. “No, Dwight, you cannot have your phone back. Right now, a couple of technical guys we borrowed from the FBI are downloading everything that’s on your phone and giving the thing a thorough strip search.”
   Hagan was stunned.“I–I don’t understand. The FBI?”
   “Dwight, I checked with the FBI and there isn’t a Carol Cline with a C or a K in the Newport News area. In fact, there isn’t one in Virginia. You said she has a home, but the assessor’s office has no record of a Carol Cline, C or K, owning a home. We also checked the DMV records for the Mustang you mentioned. There is none registered under her name.”
   Hagan froze.
   “Our people checked the Inn on Jefferson,” Vanmeter continued in a staid voice. “There are video cameras around that place. They found the yellow Mustang on one.”
   Sensing a disaster in the making, Hagan nervously glanced around the stateroom.
   “We just ran the tag,” Vanmeter said with a sigh, and then studied Hagan for a moment. “It’s a stolen plate.”
   Hagan’s head drooped. “I don’t understand…” He trailed off.
   “Dwight, listen to me,” Vanmeter asserted. “Look at me,” he ordered in a commanding voice.
   Hagan slowly lifted his gaze, feeling his throat tightening at the thought of his career ending and a life in prison.
   “Relax. We know you’re one of the good guys,” Vanmeter said in a sincere voice. “We don’t think you were an accomplice,” Vanmeter encouraged. “However, we need your help.”
   Hagan sat up. He wasn’t in trouble, it seemed. He just had to help.
   “We have our folks searching for the Mustang. Anything you can tell us would be helpful.”
   Elated to be off the hook, Hagan spent the following hour providing anything he could remember, and as he did, he couldn’t help but wonder how he’d been so easily taken in by the woman.
   Another NCIS agent came in and whispered in Vanmeter’s ear. Vanmeter responded, but all Hagan heard was “classic honey trap.” He’d heard the term in movies and read it in books. He knew it was when a foreign country sent a beautiful spy to trick a man into giving her information. He just couldn’t believe he’d been that stupid.USS ZUMWALT (DDG 1000), SOUTH CHINA SEA
   Commander Briana Sasso, formerly of USCGCMorgenthau, wasn’t easily impressed, but as she stood on the ultramodern bridge of the Zumwalt-class guided-missile destroyer drinking a hot cup of coffee, she wondered if this vessel represented the future of naval warfare. It had an amazing stealth capability with a radar cross-section akin to that of a small fishing boat, despite being six hundred feet in length and displacing fourteen thousand tons. But besides that, the vessel just looked space-age, especially when compared toMorgenthau.
   Resembling more a submarine than a surface ship, the first in its class,Zumwalt could achieve a flank speed in excess of thirty knots, which her skipper, Commander Ronald Cartwright, had ordered after rescuingMorgenthau’s crew just four hours earlier.
   “Are you sure you don’t want to take a break, Commander?” he asked. “You’re welcome to use my cabin.”
   Briana smiled but shook her head.“Very thoughtful of you, but I can’t rest now. Not until we bag the bastards who sank my ship, and the first step is intercepting that.” She stretched a finger at the vessel on the horizon.
   An HC-130H Hercules from Subic Bay had located it two hours before and continued to circle it. Cartwright had maneuveredZumwalt to a position three thousand yards from theNuovoh Arana when it made a sudden twenty-degree turn away from the destroyer.
   Briana scanned the vessel with a pair of binoculars as Cartwright brought the destroyer up the port side of the freighter, adjusting speed to remain even with its bridge.
   “They’re dumping cargo,” Briana said, passing the binoculars to Cartwright, who peered through them before turning to his XO. “Launch the helo.”
   A couple of minutes later, a large white-and-blue Sikorsky SH-60 Seahawk helicopter took off from the deck helipad and flew around the freighter once and then stabilized in a hover on the starboard side of the bridge.
   “Disney Zero-Five,” the Seahawk’s pilot reported.“They’re shoving cargo over the side with what I would describe as intense enthusiasm.”
   Cartwright caught his XO’s eye standing by the fire station. “Fire a few rounds close to the waterline.”
   Aboard the Seahawk, a sailor sprayed .50-caliber gun rounds from its side-mounted Browning machine gun, the report reverberating across the destroyer. The gunner paused a few moments and fired more rounds closer to the ship, butNuovoh Arana’s crew members continued their dumping, reminding Briana of her encounters with ships hauling drugs or arms in the Gulf of Mexico in a prior life.
   “Maybe it’s just me, but I don’t think they’re getting the message,” she commented.
   “Dammit.” Cartwright frowned. “Why is it always so difficult?”
   “Time for the big stick,” she said.
   “Fire a round across the bow,” Cartwright ordered, “and make it close.”
   The fully automated, remotely controlled 155 mm Advanced Gun System shifted into action, blasting a single projectile.
   Accompanied by a huge, circular plume of grayish smoke, the round made a spectacular splash thirty yards in front of the freighter, enveloping the bow in white foam and mist. The obstinate captain, however, elected to ignore the warning shot while the cargo continued to be jettisoned.
   “Seriously?” Cartwright mumbled. “What’s wrong with them?”
   “Just like those damn drug lords in the Gulf of Mexico,” she said. “Hit them hard, Commander. It’s the only language they know.”
   Cartwright gave the order to disable the ship.
   Fired in a water-skimming trajectory, the second AGS round ripped a gaping hole in the stern of the cargo ship in a burst of fire and shrapnel that made everyone aboard hit the deck.
   The vessel immediately began taking on water, and shortly thereafter, M/VNuovoh Arana came to a stop.
   A well-armed party boarded the cargo ship less than fifteen minutes later. Though the crew had worked feverishly to dispose of the evidence, it was apparent the freighter had resupplied another ship, presumably a submarine, given the two DM2A4 Black Shark torpedoes discovered under green tarps belowdecks.
   After the captain and crew members were taken into custody and transferred toZumwalt, Commander Cartwright contacted the Pentagon. He reported the condition of the ship and was instructed to have his crew gather all computers and any documents with potential intelligence value and to scuttle the ship.
   Briana found some solace in the freighter vanishing in a whirlpool of bubbles and surf, but she felt even better when a Seahawk from Subic Bay arrived packed with men in civilian clothes that hit the deck running, turning a dozen cabins into interrogation rooms. Leading the effort was Art Gomez, a native of Manila with leathery golden-brown skin and strong Asian features. He identified himself to Cartwright and Briana as“a civilian contractor for the US Government” and handed a letter signed by the commander, US Pacific Fleet, ordering the captain to provide him and his team with their full cooperation.
   Gomez went to work on the captain, a man named Orlov.
   Ignoring the occasional scream belowdecks, Briana remained on the bridge with Cartwright. Just beyond the ship’s bow, the Seahawk rose in the sky on its way to Subic Bay along withZumwalt’s own helo to take her crew ashore.
   “Sure you don’t want to go with them?” Cartwright asked as the two helicopters headed out. “We might be out here a while.”
   In order to avoid legal wrangling over the status of the freighter’s crew — plus to cover whatever methods Gomez and his operatives were employing in those cabins — the ship would remain in international waters until the contingent of contractors were through questioning theNuovoh Arana detainees.
   “Got no place to go,” she said. “My ship’s on the bottom. So, if you don’t mind the company, I’d rather see this through.”
   Before Cartwright could reply, Gomez walked onto the bridge, his light-blue shirt spotted with small red stains.
   As another muted cry crept through the ship, the Filipino tilted his head toward the open hatch and said,“Dirty business.” Then he added, “I need to contact Washington.”EMBASSY OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, WASHINGTON, DC
   An aide ushered Secretary of State Brad Austin into the office of Ambassador Chang Yu-shan. Like Austin, he was also a former military officer, having retired as a full colonel with the PLA.
   A bit shorter and much thinner than Austin, he advanced a few steps toward his guest and then extended a hand, wincing at Austin’s firm grip.
   “Please, Mr. Secretary,” the ambassador said with a motion in the direction of a chair opposite a wall displaying four large photos from the ambassador’s military days with the PLA’s 2nd Division in North Vietnam. “Please, have a seat.”
   Austin nodded and sat down.
   “Would you care for a cup of tea or coffee?” Yu-shan asked as he also sat down, noticing Austin taking the bait. The eyes of the former Marine Corps aviator inexorably drifted to the collage in matching silver frames. Captain Yu-shan had been among the 320,000 Chinese soldiers and pilots operating in the so-called Chinese buffer zones in North Vietnam along the border with China, where the PLA armed the North Vietnamese Army with radar stations, airfields packed with MiGs, anti-aircraft batteries, and ammunition depots — all officially off-limits to American retaliation. The buffer zones were enforced by Chinese officials and also — ironically enough — by Lockheed EC-121 Warning Stars, the predecessor of the Boeing E-3 Sentry AWACS, who monitored the zones to make sure their own American fighters or bombers did not violate them. By 1967, the NVA was firing a combined twenty-five thousand tons of anti-aircraft ammunition and missiles each month at American jets “going downtown,” running Route Pack 6 sorties into the heart of Hanoi. A good portion of those munitions and equipment had been brought in through these buffer zones.
   Yu-shan smiled inwardly as Austin recognized the North Vietnamese Army soldiers posing next to him and other PLA officers. He used the historical photos as his subtle way of reminding American visitors, especially those with military backgrounds, such as Austin, that the American military wasn’t infallible.
   Austin pointed at one of the photos.“You know, Mr. Ambassador, we used to shut off our IFFs so the Willie Victors couldn’t see us running sorties inside your buffer zones,” he said, referring to the Identification Friendly or Foe system aboard American jets and also using the US Navy nickname for the Warning Star. “We just loved catching those little NVA bastards with their pants down, thinking they were safe.”
   This time it was Yu-shan who blinked, but unlike the Chinese diplomat, Austin didn’t hold back a leer.
   Deciding that was probably enough sparring, the ambassador took a deep breath and just said,“We have water, if you prefer.”
   “No, thank you, Mr. Ambassador,” replied Austin. “And while I’d love to chat more about that ancient conflict, I’m here to address a more recent one: the provocative and dangerous aerial encounter your pilots initiated in international airspace less than twelve hours ago over the Taiwan Strait. They flagrantly endangered our flight crews and almost had a midair collision with one of our Advanced Hawkeye command-and-control aircraft.”
   Yu-shan felt the hard stare from the former Marine Corps fighter pilot, and he glared right back at him.“Secretary Austin, I deeply regret the incident happened, and I can assure you that every step is being made to correct the—”
   “Spare me the double-talk,” Austin cut him off. “We were under the impression that Beijing had corrected this kind of problem after the disastrous collision in April 2001. And now we have more Chinese fighter pilots endangering our flight crews.” Austin shook his head in disgust. “That kind of behavior demonstrates intentional malice with a total lack of discipline and poor leadership.”
   The ambassador held Austin’s gaze, then said, “I do not have the authority to directly deal with these matters.”
   “You’re the Chinese ambassador, our direct link to Beijing,” Austin countered with a disappointed voice. “Otherwise what’s the point of you being here? To attend state dinners?”
   Yu-shan tightened his jaw and fists but quickly relaxed them. Before he could come up with a reply, Austin added,“This dangerous and deliberate provocation is going to further isolate China from the international community. This unprofessional stunt has caused escalating tensions between our administration and Beijing. One miscalculation by your pilots could lead to a shooting war. Does that possibility concern you? Does it bother you in the least?”
   “Yes, of course it bothers me,” the ambassador replied, tension showing in his voice. “I will make some inquiries and see if we can correct the—”
   “Mr. Ambassador,” Austin again interrupted, “I don’t think you understand the gravity of the situation. Your fighters were armed, and they locked on to our aircraft with their target acquisition radars. One mistake — just one errant electrical malfunction — and it could have been disastrous for both countries.”
   Unaccustomed to being talked to in such a harsh tone, Yu-shan lost face.“Mr. Secretary,” he stammered. “If we had an aircraft carrier off the coast of California, the White House would not be pleased.”
   “But see, Mr. Ambassador, you wouldn’t have a reason to be there. You don’t have a defense pact with Canada or Mexico, do you? We are pledged to defend Taiwan, and that’s why we keep a military presence in that part of the world.”
   Feeling color coming to his cheeks, and angrier than he could remember, Yu-shan remained silent. He wanted to speak his mind, but he had strict orders to remain professional under any circumstance.
   “I can assure you of two things,” Austin said bluntly. “We will continue flying legal missions over international airspace. And we will not be intimidated; that is a direct warning. Your president needs to know that we are not bluffing, and the world community knows your record.”
   Yu-shan silently nodded, his jaw clenched tight in anger.These arrogant Americans need to learn their place again, just as we taught them in Vietnam.
   “Item number two,” Austin said firmly. “I’m going to personally push congressional members to initiate legislation to impose much tighter controls on technical transfers from the United States to China. Your country has a booming global economy, and China is rapidly modernizing. You have many initial public offerings on our stock exchanges on Wall Street, and your economy will surpass the US economy in the foreseeable future.”
   The secretary paused a moment, and then spoke slowly and deliberately.“Do you and your government leaders in Beijing want to jeopardize the future of China with foolish stunts?”
   Chang Yu-shan suddenly found his voice.“It is not in your best interests to threaten us, to treat us with disrespect. The Chinese government controls over a trillion dollars in US debt, and our military is the largest in the world.”
   “That’s true,” Austin replied, clearly angry, “but the US has nearly as much invested in China, and if US manufacturers were to start pulling out, China’s economy would collapse. As for your military, you have one aircraft carrier — and it’s not even combat-ready — an insufficient transport system, and an army that hasn’t been in combat since the seventies. The US, on the other hand, has eleven aircraft carriers, the majority of which are still capable of being deployed, and has been in constant combat since nine-eleven. Your leaders had best not be thinking your military can defeat ours, because short of a nuclear war — which we will also win — China can barely touch us.
   “So, listen carefully,” Austin said in a steely voice. “We did not initiate this provocation. China did. I recommend you contact Beijing and make our position very clear.”
   Austin rose from his seat.“This is an extremely serious matter. I trust you will give it your immediate attention.”
   After Austin left, Yu-shan asked that a secure phone call be placed to China. But rather than calling President Jiechi’s office, he contacted the man who’d gotten him this post: General Deng Xiangsui.* * *
   Sitting in the rear of the sedan that would drive him back to the White House, Austin hit the speed dial on his encrypted phone.
   “Brad, how did it go?” President Macklin asked.
   “Message delivered, sir. And in the appropriate wording,” he replied, before providing his commander in chief with a full briefing, including the photos that the ambassador had hanging from his wall.
   “Brad, is it just me, or does it also feel to you that we’re playing their game, just like we did back then with all of those stupid fucking restrictions?”
   “You’re reading my mind, sir. We can’t win this war on terror by following the damn playbook. I really think it’s time we turn off our IFFs… and go downtown.”THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   Followed by Keith Okimoto and his team of Secret Service agents, President Cord Macklin and Hartwell Prost strolled around the South Lawn at midnight, under a yellow quarter moon, smoking cigars.
   The DNI paused when the phone in his coat pocket dinged twice. Pulling it out, he stared at it for several seconds.
   “Hart?”
   But Prost seemed in a trance reading the message, then mumbled,“Wow.”
   “Hart!”
   Turning to face his commander in chief, Prost said,“Just got confirmation via my people in the South Pacific that the same ghost submarine that damagedStennis and sunkNorth Dakota also sunkMorgenthau.”
   “The same sub?”
   “Yes, sir.”
   “We know this how?”
   “Apparently when the sub made the emergency dive from the side of the freighter, a crew member was inadvertently left on the cargo ship.”
   “And how did our folks figure this out so quickly? It’s been, like, just a few hours since we intercepted it?” Macklin asked, remembering an earlier brief from the chief of naval operations, Admiral Denny Blevins.
   Prost shook his head.“That’s, ah… CIA business, sir. You don’t want to know the details.”
   “Oh.”
   “The sub crew is Russian, and the commander is a former Soviet submarine captain by the name of Yuri Sergeyev. My people are pulling together a dossier on the man. According to intelligence extracted independently from the stranded crew member and also from the freighter’s captain, also a former Soviet naval officer, named Boris Orlov, the sub is headed for the Taiwan Strait to huntVinson as its primary target orRoosevelt as its secondary.”
   Macklin pinched the bridge of his nose, feeling a headache mounting.
   “There’s something else, sir,” he added. “According to this Orlov, both he and Sergeyev were hired by our missing Saudi prince.”
   “Whom we let get away.”
   Prost frowned.
   “Hart,” Macklin added. “Needless to say, we can’t afford to lose another carrier. And given Chalmers’s last briefing on the noise China’s making in the region, ifVinson is out of the picture, I think the PLA will make a move on Taiwan.”
   “Admiral Blevins is already aware, sir,” Prost said, pointing at his phone. “And so is the crew ofVinson and its escorts— as is theRoosevelt carrier group. They’re on the lookout with all of their ASW assets. And we have also orderedZumwalt to the strait for insurance.
   “Also, the attack submarineMissouri is out there. Her skipper is the one who picked up the ghost sub a couple of times on his sonar. He fought tooth and nail with COMSUBPAC to remain in the area to hunt it, rather than escortStennis to Honolulu.”
   Macklin blew smoke out, feeling damn glad the military still had independent thinkers.
   At the president’s silence, Prost added, “And sinceMissouri seems to be the only boat who can pick up the scent of this ghost sub, we’ve also dispatched it to the strait to keep hunting for it.”
   Macklin stared at the glowing end of his cigar and frowned.“Hart, I want to go back toFord for a moment. What’s the status of the NCIS investigation?”
   “They identified the spy,” he said with some trepidation. “However, they… ah, missed her when they went to arrest her.”
   “Missed her?”
   Prost explained about the sailor, the girlfriend with the phony name, and the dragnet the NCIS and other law enforcement officials had thrown over the Newport News area, looking for the missing yellow Mustang convertible.
   “A patrol car from the Newport News Police Department, working off the NCIS BOLO, located the Mustang at a home overlooking the bay. They cordoned off the neighborhood and executed a no-knock warrant.”
   With a shake of his head, Prost carried on.“Her clothes were still in the closet and to add insult to injury, a still-warm cup of coffee was sitting on the kitchen table. But she was gone.”
   Macklin exhaled heavily as he sat down on a nearby bench.“If the Mustang was still in the driveway, and the neighborhood had been surrounded, how did she disappear?”
   Prost sat down on a facing bench and eyed his commander in chief.“They also found a police radio scanner. She heard the chatter and ran.”
   “We just can’t catch a break, can we?” the president said angrily, chewing on his cigar instead of smoking it.
   “Not all hope is lost, sir. The fact that the spy ran away isn’t necessarily all bad.”
   “What are you talking about?”
   “One of our space-based assets picked up another satellite phone message four hours ago, originating from the Virginia Beach area to a receiver about a hundred and twenty miles from our coast. We think our runaway spy sent it before going dark.”
   “Oh,” Macklin said. “What does it say?”
   “The content of the message isn’t that important. It says that her cover’s blown and she’s going underground. But we can now concentrate our assets on that area, from Coast Guard cutters and patrol boats to drones.”
   “Anything you need,” Macklin said. “Just catch the bastard before he gets any closer.”
   “Yes, sir.”
   “And how’s your special team?”
   “Still searching for the elusive prince. We now have tabs on all of his usual hideouts, from yachts and jets to mansions and villas. Now that we have a name, it’s just a matter of time.”
   “That’s comforting,” Macklin said. “Considering it only took us ten years to nail bin Laden.”
   Prost stopped and said,“Mac, may I be candid?”
   Surprised, the president responded,“Sure, what’s on your mind?”
   “You need a day off or your head’s gonna explode. Some downtime to relax and enjoy a few pleasant moments in life. You’ve become consumed by the magnitude of the attacks, and the aftereffects. You’re five minutes from being Jimmy Carter during the Iran hostage crisis.”
   “Hart, I don’t have time to take a fucking day off. We can’t just pretend these problems will go away. There’s a damned ghost sub at large in the South China Sea going after my carriers, plus some mystery boat heading toward Norfolk with the intent of attackingFord, and now we’ve blown both leads by spooking the spy in Norfolk and the Saudi prince. Do we even have an inkling as to how they might try to hitFord?”
   “We’re working some scenarios now, sir, but just to be on the safe side, Blevins is extendingFord’s sea trials for another week, plus deploying a half dozen escort ships to shield her. They’re going to pretend they’re in the Gulf.”
   Macklin barely acknowledged his DNI as he swirled smoke in his mouth.“See, Hart, that’s exactly what worries me.”
   “What’s that, sir?”
   “That everything you’ve described so far is still… well, playing defense, which to me means the bastards got usprecisely where they want us.”
   — 22 —USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), TAIWAN STRAIT
   What a glorious morning, Skipper,” commented Lt. Cmdr. Trey Malloy to Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski while they finished their walk-around of their Alert Five Super Hornets as the first rays of sunlight made their debut.
   “So, you’re the damned weatherman now, Mullet?” asked Kowalski.
   Malloy shrugged.“It’s the only profession where you can be wrong half the time and still keep your job.”
   Kowalski grinned, then said,“What you’re looking at here is just the calm before the storm.”
   Somewhere around midnight the prior night, the Chinese destroyerQingdao, no longer satisfied with trailing theVinson flotilla, had decided to turn off all of its lights and paint the carrier with its fire-control radar.
   “What is it with these guys? Don’t they know how dangerous a game they’re playing?”
   Before Malloy could reply, Kowalski turned around and climbed the boarding ladder to his jet as wisps of steam floated out of the catapult tracks. Across the deck, Ricardo and Amanda taxied their birds into position.
   Taking a deep breath and praying that his boss was wrong, Malloy also went up his boarding ladder.* * *
   After launching off the bow, Amanda worked the control column and throttles to make a running rendezvous with her flight leader. Working closely withVinson’s departure controller and the other controllers in CATCC, the aviators began climbing to their briefed altitude to set up a holding pattern. Their orbit would be halfway between the carrier and mainland China, south of the Taiwan Strait. Their mission included keeping an eye on the Chinese destroyer.
   “Dragon One-Oh-Eight cleared to the BARCAP station,” the flight controller said, referring to the barrier combat air patrol, the airspace between the carrier strike group and the direction from which the most likely threat could originate. Ricardo and Amanda’s mission was to relieve the F/A-18Es that had been flying BARCAP for the past four hours.“Contact Liberty Bell.”
   “Switching,” Ricardo replied.
   Flying a loose parade position off Ricardo’s wing, Amanda changed radio frequencies in time to hear her flight leader check in with the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye.
   “Liberty Bell, Dragon One-Zero-Eight with you; flight of two.”
   “Dragon One-Zero-Eight Liberty, roger,” Lt. Cmdr. Steve Barlow said from the E-2D as they climbed to altitude.“Dragons, the duty BARCAP is at your eleven o’clock, six miles, descending out of flight level two-one-zero.”
   “Dragon One copy,” Ricardo replied.
   “Dragon Two,” Amanda said, and a few moments later she spotted the pair of Super Hornets from the Bounty Hunters, VFA-2, in the northwestern skies.
   “Dragon One has a tally on the Hunters, no conflict,” Ricardo reported.
   “Roger that,” Barlow replied.
   The relieved BARCAP jets broke off to return toVinson as Ricardo and Amanda leveled off.
   “Deedle, let’s go max endurance.”
   “Two,” Amanda replied, easing her throttles back to match her flight leader’s airspeed.
   “I’m going to slide out a tad, Ricky,” Amanda said. “Relax for a few.”
   “Okay,” Ricardo said.“Don’t go to sleep on me.”
   Amanda replied with a simple double click of her mic.
   As they settled into their routine holding pattern, Amanda scanned the sky behind her flight leader while contemplating the odds of Beijing making a play for Taiwan. With only one carrier operating in the region, would China really attempt to invade the island?
   She shook her head, working the flight controls on automatic. Her mind still worked to process the fact that she wasn’t just in the strait, but in this instance, her BARCAP flight represented the very front line of the US Pacific Fleet shielding Taiwan from the might of the People’s Libera—
   “Dragons, we have company. Two confirmed bandits climbing from Fuzhou,” Barlow reported.
   Amanda snapped out of her mental nap.
   “Dragon One.”
   “Dragon Two,” Amanda said.
   “They’re at your four o’clock,” Barlow said with an uneasy voice.“Ninety-six miles, climbing through one three thousand.”
   “Roger that. Deedle, let’s go in place, starboard ninety, and then combat spread.”
   “Two,” Amanda replied, her throat suddenly going dry as she shifted her jet almost a half mile from Ricardo’s wingtip.
   Halfway through the turn, Ricardo keyed his radio.“Let’s take it to them. Coming up on the power.”
   Click-click.
   “Dragons,” Barlow said,“we have two more bandits in trail… also from Fuzhou. Mother is launching the alert birds.”
   “Christ,” Amanda mumbled under her oxygen mask. “Here we go again.”* * *
   Col. Lian Guõ climbed through ten thousand feet at Mach 1.2 in the second two-plane section. At her request, Major Ren led the first pair of Sukhois a dozen miles ahead, closing in on the pair of Super Hornets flying a racetrack pattern.
   Let’s see how he handles himself as flight leader in real combat, she thought, considering that their mission today was a bit more aggressive than their first one yesterday: perform a flyover of the American aircraft carrier before returning to base.
   Lian frowned, uncertain of the order given the high degree of risk, but General Deng Xiangsui had seemed confident that the coward Americans would not go beyond following them and perhaps locking a missile, like they had the day before.
   “But they’ll never fire, my dear Lian,” he had told her. “Their rules of engagement prevent it.”
   Jiujiu, I hope you’re right, she thought as she leveled off at eighteen thousand feet with her wingman glued to her starboard wingtip.I hope you’re right.* * *
   Amanda could feel a sudden surge of adrenaline and her pulse quickened. She felt hyperalert, and a pregame anxiety rose in her chest. She inhaled and exhaled a couple of times to relax herself.“Ricky, we have enough fuel for a short engagement, but we’re going to have to rely on the Alert Fives to bail us out.”
   “Master Arm on,” Ricardo said with determination in his voice.
   “Master Arm on,” Amanda replied, before adding, “These idiots are going to screw around until someone gets hurt.”
   “Yup,” Ricardo replied.
   “Deedle, I hold the second group twelve miles behind the first two.”
   “That’s what I see,” Amanda replied.
   “When the lead pair is at seven miles, let’s start a tight merge and see what they do.”
   “Roger that,” Amanda replied, biting her lower lip under her mask before asking, “Do you think they’ll engage, go a few rounds with us?”
   “Who the hell knows,” Ricardo admitted.“Bastards are totally unpredictable.”
   “Man, I miss the Russians,” Amanda said.
   “Yeah, at least those guys understood the risks. These characters are batshit crazy.”
   Click-click.
   Head onto the Su-35S jets, Amanda watched the rapid closure rate.
   At seven miles, Ricardo keyed his radio.“Let’s merge,” he declared in a commanding voice.“Now!”
   “Two!”
   Both Super Hornets snapped into tight ninety-degree turns toward each other. To Amanda’s surprise, the two Flanker-E pilots eased their noses down and passed under the tightly clustered navy jets.
   “They’re headed straight for the carrier!” Amanda said, swinging her head as they blurred by.
   “Deedle, blowers now!” Ricardo ordered.
   She slammed her throttles into afterburner, following her lead, pulling almost nine g’s, her jaws tight as she endured the mounting pressure.
   “Copy,” Amanda groaned as the F/A-18Es crossed nose-to-nose at a combined closure rate of more than 1,200 miles per hour, forty feet apart, their four engines burning fuel at a tremendous rate.
   “Dragons, you have the two additional Flankers now on your six with a full head of steam,” Barlow reported from the E-2D.
   Amanda verified that the second set of Flankers had indeed closed the gap to less than seven miles.
   “Get the Alert Five Rhinos on them,” Ricardo said.“We have a full plate at the moment!”* * *
   Mullet Malloy shot skyward after Dover Kowalski. On his radar, he could see the pair of Chinese Su-35S jets closing in onVinson with the BARCAP F/A-18Es on their tails, and several miles behind them two more Flankers-Es closing in on them.
   He grew more concerned about how this all would play out as he settled behind his flight leader’s right wingtip. Kowalski requested a private word on their current frequency withVinson’s skipper and his own superior, Capt. James Buchelle, commander of Carrier Air Wing 2. As Kowalski’s wingman, Malloy had to remain on frequency and thus became privy to the conversation.
   “Dover?” came the gruff voice of Capt. Peter Keegan.“I’m here with Jimmy. What do you need?”
   “Gentlemen, we can’t let these guys near mother,” Kowalski started. “The Russians used to overfly us all the time, and we didn’t have any problems. But these aren’t the Russians. We can’t take the chance of having mother going up in smoke. Just one well-placed bomb and it’s game over.”
   Static silence filled the air.
   “Besides,” Kowalski pressed. “If we let them get away with this rope-a-dope shit, they’ll keep pushing the envelope until we don’t have any options.”
   “How much time do we have?” asked Buchelle.
   “About three minutes, sir,” Kowalski shot back.
   “What’s your consensus?” Keegan asked, with obvious stress in his voice.
   “Have the BARCAP splash the Flankers,” Kowalski said. “Now. Take them down.”
   “Stand by,” Buchelle replied.
   Malloy took a deep breath as he waited for the standard chain of command discussion. Keegan and Buchelle were now conferring with Rear Admiral Jack Swift, the commander of the Carl Vinson Carrier Strike Group, the highest-rank officer aboard. Within thirty seconds, their decision was passed onto the duty officer in CATCC, who immediately relayed the command to the Advanced Hawkeye’s combat information center officer.* * *
   “Dragon One, Liberty Bell,” Amanda heard Barlow say.“You have authority to splash the bandits! Repeat you have permission to shoot down the bandits!”
   Amanda’s breath caught in her throat as Ricardo keyed his radio:“Copy, Liberty, taking them down.
   “Deedle, you take the leader,” Ricardo instructed in a firm, steady voice.“I’ll take his wingman.”
   “Roger that,” Amanda replied.
   “Take the shot!” Ricardo ordered.
   Amanda heard the missile lock on the AIM-120 AMRAAM mounted on her port-side rail and, squeezing the trigger on her control column, she said,“Fox three,” in a voice far calmer than how she felt.
   A moment later, she watched the plume of the twelve-foot-long missile tracking its target, just as Ricardo fired one of his AMRAAMs.
   Do your job, she thought as the supersonic missiles locked on to their individual targets, who suddenly realized they had been fired upon and began sharp right turns and dives while dispensing chaff. But given their proximity, the AMRAAMs’ active radar ignored the countermeasures and easily guided the missiles straight to their prey. A second apart, both Flanker-Es exploded in mushrooming black clouds, just as their pilots tried to eject, but the rapidly expanding fireballs engulfed their respective ejections seats. No chutes appeared.* * *
   “Missile! Missile! The Americans have fired missiles on us! Countermeasures released… ineffective. Ejecting! Now!”
   Lian tightened her grip on the control column as Ren and his wingman vanished in twin fireballs.
   You bastards!
   Tears welling in her eyes, the PLAAF colonel pushed her dual throttles into burner while ordering her wingman back to base.
   “But, Colonel,” her wingman began.“I’m not supposed to leave your—”
   “Now! It’s an order! I’m doing this alone!”* * *
   “Liberty Bell,” Ricardo radioed as burning debris fell from the sky. “Splashed two Flanker-Es, two Flanker-Es down!”
   “Copy, two bandits down,” Barlow confirmed.“Stand by for the two bandits at your six.”
   “Roger that,” Ricardo said, feeling the adrenaline rush. “Dragon Two, in place starboard turn, now!”* * *
   “Two!” Amanda exclaimed as she began to experience task overload. She was just getting over shooting down the Sukhoi, and now she had two more on her tail.
   Keep it together and stay focused, she thought.
   “Where are those Alert Five Rhinos?” Ricardo asked.
   “We’re on them now, Ricky,” Kowalski reported.
   “Right behind them, buddy,” Malloy added.
   “Welcome to our little party, guys,” Ricardo replied.
   “Dragons,” the controller interrupted.“One of the Flankers must have seen the fireballs and the Alert Five and is hightailing it out of Dodge.”
   “Where’s the other one?” Ricardo asked, feeling a growing sense of doom.
   “At your six! We’re on it!” Kowalski said.* * *
   Lian shot across the sky at Mach 2.3, closing the gap to the Super Hornets in seconds. She got an IR missile lock on the right jet and fired one of her Vympel R-73s.
   Out of my way, asshole, she thought, watching the Super Hornet breaking away and dispensing flares before she idled the engines and deployed the speedbrakes, settling behind the twin tails of the bastard who had shot down Ren.
   “A missile is too merciful for you,” she mumbled, arming the nose-mounted 30 mm GSh-301 cannon as she placed the tail of the American jet in the gunsights of her heads-up display.
   This one’s for Ren.* * *
   “Missile!” Ricardo shouted.“I’m outta here!”
   Amanda watched her flight leader break hard right, turning ninety degrees to the incoming threat while dispensing flares in an attempt to fool the missile; its turning radius typically could not match that of a modern fighter jet.
   “Where’s the bandit?” she screamed, losing sight of Ricardo and straining her neck in every direction to find the Chinese fighter jet.
   “At your six, Dragon Two!” reported Barlow from the E-2D.“He’s right behind—”
   The sound of gunfire echoed all around her, and her control column shuddered as the sound of hammers striking the fuselage reverberated through the cockpit.
   “I’m hit! Dragon Two is hit!”* * *
   Lian opened the cannon through the side of the Super Hornet’s fuselage for just three seconds, ripping into the metal alloy before her Irbis-E passive phased array radar showed two more enemy jets closing in on her.
   Dammit.
   She broke off the attack, but not before passing by the side of the bastard who had shot down her second in command. Her eyes scanned the side of the fuselage as she dashed by the Super Hornet’s port wing. Compared to her shiny Sukhoi, the American fighter looked as if it had been chewed up in multiple air battles. For a moment, Lian was glad to have added to its scars. The American now trailed fuel and debris.
   And just before turning to the mainland in full burner, accelerating to Mach 2.25, well beyond the maximum speed of the American jets, Lian spotted the hot-pink lettering beneath the canopy.
   Two things surprised her. First, that the pilot was a woman, Lt. Amanda Diamante. And second, the strange words below the name.
   DEEDLE-DEEDLE.* * *
   Having lost the heat-seeking missile to a cloud of flares, Ricardo climbed back up to altitude, just in time to watch the Flanker-E’s twin engines in full burner disappear in the horizon. He rolled wings level for a moment before turning toward Amanda.
   “Coming up behind you, Deedle,” Ricardo advised as he approached her. “Flanker-E checked out, no factor. How bad are you?”
   “I’m trying to figure that out. My right motor’s losing power,” she trailed off.“I didn’t have any kind of warning; must have been a gun.”
   “You guys have had enough fun for one day,” Kowalski said.“Get your asses home. We’ll cover the area.”
   “Are you okay?” Ricardo asked while watching Kowalski and Malloy break off to run BARCAP and give them a safe space to work the problem.
   “Right motor’s almost out,” she replied in a subdued voice.“That bastard must be one hell of a shooter, or he got mighty lucky.”
   Ricardo keyed his radio.“From that distance, I’d say he was damn lucky. He almost took me out too.”
   “Shit. I’m also losing fuel like crazy.”
   “Liberty Bell, Dragon flight is going to the tanker,” Ricardo radioed as he started to rendezvous with Amanda.
   “Negative,” Barlow said.“The tanker went sour, and we won’t have a spare one for about twenty to twenty-five minutes.”
   “Dragons are going to the boat,” Ricardo radioed as he eased his aircraft under and to the left of Amanda’s plane.
   “Copy, cleared to mom,” Barlow said, giving Dragon One a new radio frequency, and then switched frequencies to communicate with the Alert Five Super Hornets flying BARCAP.
   Ricardo slowly moved to the right side of his wingman and surveyed the damage.“Yeah, Deedle, you have a half dozen holes. Little Swiss cheese. No obvious engine damage.”
   “Right motor’s off. Man, the master chief’s going to be pissed,” she said.
   “I don’t see any external damage to either motor, so I’m guessing the fuel line,” Ricardo said, given her loss of power and also the mist of fuel trailing the fighter jet.”
   “Has to be,” Amanda confirmed.“I’ve checked everything else.”
   “Well, you’re definitely streaming fuel,” Ricardo said dryly. “Don’t even think about staging the blower on that left engine.”
   “Yeah,” Amanda replied with a chuckle.“Thathad crossed my primitive brain stem.”
   Ricardo maneuvered his jet out to the left side of his wingman and stepped up.“Okay, our only chance is the boat. Deedle, you take the lead, and I’ll keep an eye on you.”
   “Roger that,” Amanda replied as Ricardo eased behind her.“But I don’t think this is going to work, Ricky. According to my calculations, I’m going to come up short.”
   “We’ll stay high and conserve fuel,” he advised in a calm manner. “How much gas do you have?”
   “Less than four thousand pounds and dropping fast.”
   Glancing at his chronograph, he noted the time, checked the distance to the aircraft carrier, and waited another minute.“What’s your total now?”
   “I’m looking at three point seven,” Amanda replied in a resigned voice.“I’m not going to make it to mother.”
   “I think you’ll have one shot at the deck,” Ricardo said in a positive tone.
   “Yeah, sure thing, Coach.”
   Ricardo switched toVinson’s CATCC and checked in. He explained the challenging problem and switched back to Amanda. “Deedle, you’re cleared on arrival.”
   “Ricky, this isn’t going to work,” she said in a frustrated but even voice.“The numbers don’t compute.”
   Ricardo glanced at the helmet in the other cockpit.“Look, we’re going to start down in a couple of minutes. When we do, we’ll make an idle descent to abeam the boat. That’ll save a lot of fuel.”* * *
   “Copy,” Amanda replied in a lackluster voice while now looking at 3,400 pounds and working the rudder and stick to compensate for the asymmetrical thrust. “This is going to be very tight.”
   “You can hack it,” Ricardo assured her.
   Amanda grinned.“Sure thing.”
   She spent the next few minutes scanning her instruments while the fuel level continued decreasing at a steady rate, which, though disconcerting, was at least predictable, allowing her to make a few more mental calculations.
   It’s going to be damned close.
   She breathed deeply, trying to quench the fear worming its way through her gut at the thought of having to eject again. And if that painful memory alone wasn’t enough to feed her determination to make it to that flight deck, the image of her crop-dusting mentor, Commander Ripley, loomed in her mind.
   Courage is fear holding on a minute—
   “Dragon Two, let’s push,” Ricardo said as he inched the throttles back.
   “Copy,” Amanda responded. She glanced at the fuel. Just under 2,700 pounds left in the tanks.
   They continued the smooth descent and spotted the ship when they reached eleven thousand feet.Vinson had a clear landing area, and other planes were holding overhead the carrier.
   Downwind descending through five thousand feet, Amanda was looking at 1,700 pounds of fuel.I’m going to be sucking fumes when I roll into the groove.
   In preparation to eject if it came to that, she removed her kneeboard and began trimming the jet for level flight close to the ship. To save fuel, Amanda kept the landing gear in the up position. At an altitude of 1,500 feet, she had to add power with just under 1,400 pounds left in the tanks, or around 130 gallons.
   “Gear and hook,” Ricardo reminded his wingman.
   “I’m going to hold them till the one-eighty,” Amanda declared, deciding to reduce drag by keeping the landing gear and the tail hook retracted until she made the final 180-degree turn to align the nose with the carrier’s stern at an altitude of 500 feet.
   The fuel burned faster at the lower altitude and increased power on her single engine.
   Ricardo keyed his radio.“Let’s switch to the LSO.”
   “Roger that.”* * *
   Ricardo checked in with the landing signal officer, unofficially known as“paddles” because back in the day LSOs would stand on the ship’s stern and face the incoming plane holding colored flags or paddles to guide them onto the flight deck. “Okay, Dragon One-Oh-Eight with you.”
   “CAG Paddles copy,” the controlling LSO replied.“Understand Two-Zero-Six has damage on the right motor and low fuel?”
   “That would be critical fuel and complete loss of right motor,” Ricardo calmly explained as they leveled their Super Hornets at 1,200 feet.
   “Okay, Dragon Two,” the senior LSO radioed in a calm, reassuring voice.“We’re rigging the barricade. Fly a smooth stabilized approach, and I’ll talk you aboard.” The barricade webbing was an emergency recovery system used when there was a chance of not making the normal arresting-wire landing. It consisted of upper and lower horizontal loading straps stretched across the flight deck between stanchions. The sections were joined together by vertical engaging straps designed to snag the wings of the landing aircraft.* * *
   “Roger,” Amanda said as she tried to remember the process for a single-engine approach to the barricade. Her training also forced her to go through the single-engine rate-of-climb numbers should she have to go around, though she didn’t think she had the fuel for a single approach, much less for a go-around. She also noticed the SH-60 Seahawk plane-guard helicopter keeping pace with the carrier.
   God bless those helo guys, she thought.But I hope they don’t have to fish me out of the drink.
   Unable to stop herself, she gazed at the fuel status and cringed when she saw 1,040 pounds.* * *
   On the flight deck, as the well-trained crew raised the barricade, a loud voice made an urgent announcement over the 5MC.“Emergency Rhino abeam.”* * *
   Amanda watched the ship’s stern past her left wingtip and continued for another mile, completing the downwind leg before beginning a descending left turn to 073 degrees to line up withVinson’s stern. She also dropped her tailhook.Don’t blow this pass in front of the entire air group.
   “You’re lookin’ good,” the LSO said, adding reassuringly,“Just be smooth and fly the ball.”
   “I’m on it,” Amanda replied. Reaching for the gear handle, she lowered the landing gear. All three indicated safe.
   Rolling wings level over the wake of the ship, Amanda spotted the bright yellow-orange meatball.“Rhino, ball, state nine hundred pounds.”
   “Roger ball,” CAG Paddles replied.“Clear deck. Keep it smooth, relax, and BREATHE.”
   Amanda inhaled deeply as she shot a quick look at the flight deck, gripping the stick so hard, she overcontrolled.
   “Line up,” the LSO coaxed.“Keep it nice and easy on that power. You’re a little low.”
   Making the correction to align the jet with the center of the angle deck, Amanda allowed the jet to get too low and slow.
   “Power and more power,” CAG Paddles urged.“Give me more power and line up.”
   Adjusting the throttle, Amanda overcorrected and added too much. Her jet rose well above the desired glide path.
   “Too high, Dragon Two. Lower. Lower!”
   Although Amanda remembered the entire procedure for making an approach to the barricade on one engine, a single step flashed in her mind: You never want to be too high, because you could catch the top of the barrier with your landing gear if you had to go around.
   As she tried to correct her height by setting up a faster-than-desired sink rate, the LSO hit the wave-off lights while ordering,“Dragon Two, go around! Now!”
   Dammit, she thought while pushing the single engine to military power and clearing the top of the barrier by just a dozen feet.
   “Dragon Two, turn downwind after you get yourself turned around, and turn in as soon as able.”
   “Turning in now,” she said, working the throttle, rudders, elevators, and ailerons to get herself ready for another pass as her gas level reached six hundred pounds. “What’s my final bearing?”
   “It’s still zero seven three. Line up.”
   “Roger.”
   Once again, she turned downwind, passed abeam the ship’s stern, and, after a quarter mile, made a 180-degree descending turn to line her nose with the carrier. She knew better than to spot the deck, but the meatball was going high on the Fresnel lens.
   “Paddles, ball’s shooting up from the depths.”
   “Dragon, cut power,” the LSO replied.
   Once more, she overcorrected by idling the engines and made the problem worse as her fuel dropped below three hundred pounds. She silently cursed the asymmetrical thrust on the single engine, her constant worry about flaming out, and the damn helo shadowing her— distractions that were impeding her from making a proper approach.
   You can do this, she thought, correcting the problem.
   “Dragon has the ball,” she reported as she descended onto her moving target.
   “Power!” the LSO radioed as the jet approached the round down of the flight deck.“Power, POWER!”
   Amanda shoved the throttle forward two seconds before the Super Hornet slammed onto the deck a dozen paces from the ramp, skipping the one, the two, and finally snagging the number three wire. The latter arrested her forward momentum, propelling her into her harness as she groaned from the sudden deceleration while also rolling into the barricade just a foot left of the centerline. The vertical straps killed any forward motion by snagging the leading edges of both wings.
   Taking a deep breath and relieved to be safely on deck, she idled the jet while the arresting wire pulled it backward to allow the tail hook to drop the cable.
   Her heartbeat drumming against her temples, Amanda found herself holding her breath. She exhaled hard and took a deep breath, trying to calm her heartbeat.
   It took the crew a minute to lower the barricade, and she followed the directions of the yellow-jersey flight director to a spot clear of the foul deck line. And it was there that she spotted Maintenance Master Chief Gino Cardona standing by with his arms crossed, his mirror-tint sunglasses reflecting the morning sun as he shook his head.
   Shutting down the engine and unfastening her oxygen mask, Amanda breathed a deep sigh of relief. She noticed her hands were shaking. She was pretty sure, though, that her panties were still clean.
   And that’s something to be proud of, I guess.* * *
   Lian grew angrier as she approached the coast at Mach 2.3. Her N011 pulse-Doppler radar, capable of tracking up to fifteen aerial targets, showed two Super Hornets flying a racetrack pattern almost sixty miles behind her. The other two jets had returned to the carrier. And higher above, an E-2D Advanced Hawkeye similar to the one she had buzzed yesterday kept a watchful eye on the airspace.
   I lost two pilots. I can’t go back empty-handed.
   She had three Vympel R-37 long-range air-to-air missiles, which she could fire at the American aircraft in shoot-and-forget mode, letting the missiles’ active radar homing track their respective targets.
   But Lian was also aware of the countermeasure capabilities of a Super Hornet, which could evade one, maybe even two missiles if the pilot was a really, really good stick.
   But three?
   Making her decision, she slowed down to make a tight 360-degree shooting run, briefly pointing the nose toward the southwestern skies. Picking at random, she locked all three R-37s on one of the BARCAP Super Hornets, firing them at five-second intervals while still turning.
   The thirteen-foot missiles, each with a range of more than two hundred miles, shot off and made slight turns before rocketing up to Mach 6.0, or 4,603 miles per hour.
   At that insane speed, over twice that of a 9 mm bullet, the lead missile closed the sixty-mile gap in forty-six seconds.* * *
   “Missile lock! Got three missiles on my Rhino!” Kowalski heard Malloy scream as he broke right to place the lead missile at a ninety-degree angle and began dispensing chaff.
   Jesus Christ, he thought, staring at the incoming vampires on his radar, all closing in on Malloy’s bird at a staggering speed.
   It took a moment for Kowalski to do the math before he shouted,“You can’t shake them, Mullet! Too fast and too close! Eject! Eject!”
   “I’ve got this, Skipper!”
   The first missile went for the chaff, exploding in an impressive ball of fire and shrapnel less than a half mile from Malloy. Instead of ejecting, Malloy performed a second turn to once again position himself at ninety degrees from the second missile while releasing more chaff. The maneuver worked, fooling the second missile, which detonated a couple thousand feet from the F/A-18E.
   “Dammit, Mullet!” Kowalski screamed. “Get the hell out of there!”
   “Nope. I’ve got it, Skipper!” he replied, making a third turn after releasing more chaff.“This one’s for the history books!”
   The third missile also went for the chaff, and for an instant Kowalski thought the hotshot pilot had indeed written a new chapter in missile-evasion techniques. But the vampire detonated just a bit too close to the jet, tearing into the rear fuselage.
   “I tried, Skipper! Punching out! Need a helo and a driver!”
   Malloy’s canopy blew back in the slipstream followed by the Mk14 ejection seat firing. But before it could achieve enough separation, the blast propagated to the front of the Super Hornet.
   One second Kowalski watched his wingman shooting away from the jet, and the next instant flames swallowed the entire bird and Malloy as the blast ignited thousands of pounds of jet fuel.
   “Dammit!” he cursed beneath his oxygen mask as he flew around the falling debris in the hopes that somehow the Martin-Baker ejection seat had managed to punch through the fireball.
   But after thirty seconds, Kowalski keyed his mic,“Liberty Bell, Liberty Bell, Dragon Three-Three-Niner reporting that Dragon Four-Zero-Seven is gone.… Mullet… he bought the farm.”
   — 23 —FUZHOU AIR BASE, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   Col. Lian Guõ worked her way through a bottle of Moutai, the prestigious brand of the sorghum-based alcoholic drink commonly calledbaijiu, also referred to as Chinese vodka.
   She sat alone at the bar in the officer’s club, while Hai Jing pinned a photo of Major Zhao Ren and the other officer killed that day on the base’s wall of heroes. The five-by-eight corkboard behind the bar, flanked by glass shelves packed with assorted bottles, depicted close to eighty fallen pilots. The tradition had been started by herjiujiu following the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis.
   Refilling her shot glass, Lian regarded the quote fromTao Te Ching along the top of the sixty-year-old memorial.
   Those who die without being forgotten get longevity.
   She lifted her shot glass toward it and whispered,“Here’s to becoming a fucking picture on a wall.” She downed it, feeling the warmth in her throat, then refilled her glass. She ignored the look the old bartender, Hai, gave her. His heavily scarred face showed obvious concern.
   Hai looked at Lian with his good eye and said,“All of life is a dream, Lian. All of death is a going home.”
   “Do me a favor, would you, Hai? Spare me the damned proverbs. And, when my turn comes, just don’t bother with this crap. I don’t want to be some ghost on your wall.”
   Hai slowly retreated to the other side of the bar as she continued glaring at the array of photos, but in her mind, the PLAAF colonel saw the weathered Super Hornet with the peculiar hot-pink call sign. Although killing the other jet with her missiles had given Lian some solace, it wasn’t enough.
   I will find you, Lieutenant Amanda Diamante… and help you reach your fucking home.USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), TAIWAN STRAIT
   Amanda Diamante was in tears as she sat next to a stoned-faced Juan Ricardo in the ready room, along with the rest of the somber-looking pilots from their fighter squadron.
   Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski walked in, followed by a few officers, including Lt. Cmdr. Vince Nova, the squadron’s safety officer, as well as the squadron’s XO, and even the air boss, Capt. James Buchelle, a hard-looking man with a full head of silver hair, whose grim expression reflected the sentiment in the room.
   Kowalski stood in front of the group and said,“Let this be a lesson to all of you. You can whine all you want about that Sukhoi pilot firing three radar-controlled missiles from that distance, but the reality is that we do the same damn thing all the time. Mullet bought the farm not because that Chinese pilot shot those missiles. He died because he didn’t follow orders. As much as I rag on you about protecting the equipment — and as much as the photo of the CAG standing there looking through that hole in his Phantom might inspire you to bring your bird home — when I order you to eject, by God, you better eject.
   “Now, I want everyone here to understand one thing: this is combat, and people die in combat. Today was Mullet’s turn. Tomorrow might be yours, Ricky, or yours, Deedle. Or the guy to your left or your right. Or it might even be my Asian-Polish ass that goes up in smoke. But know this: the chances of that happening are much higher if you choose not to put Mullet’s death behind you this minute. Right now. Before you leave this room.”
   Almost on cue, the room shook with the roar of a roller coaster rumbling overhead.
   “That,” Kowalski said, pointing at the pipes and wires layering the ceiling, “is the sound of the war machine. Hear it well and remember that it does not stop. It can’t stop, or our enemies will eat us alive. The war machine doesn’t sleep, ladies and gentlemen. And it certainly isn’t going to wait around for you to get over Mullet’s death.”
   Kowalski paused, looked over at Buchelle, who gave him a brief nod. Then the commander of the World Famous Golden Dragons regarded his pilots once again and finally added in a somber voice,“There will be a memorial service for Mullet on the flight deck at oh six hundred. Uniform is Summer Whites.”ZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   “We can’t let them get away with that, Mr. President,” General Deng Xiangsui opened up the emergency morning meeting. He was addressing Xi Jiechi from the opposite end of the table as they sat with the minister of national defense, the chief of the joint staff, and the commanders of the PLA Air Force, the PLA Navy, and the PLA Rocket Force. In addition, five of the nine members of the Politburo Standing Committee sat along one side of the long conference table. Though, as was customary, they were there just to observe how the newly elected president handled this crisis.
   “Exactly where were our aircraft, General?” Jiechi asked.
   “Within our airspace flying combat air patrol,” Deng replied, his commanders bobbing their heads in unison. Three of the PSC members whispered to one another.
   Jiechi felt a headache coming on.“And the Americans simply fired their missiles?”
   “Yes, sir.”
   “No warning? That’s…”
   “Impossible to believe?” Deng said. “This is just their next step in their strategy to send us a very clear message. Then, they even had the audacity of sending one of their jets after our Sukhoi while on retreat, so we took it down.”
   Once more, some of the PSC members whispered among themselves.
   “And your recommendation, General? A message of our own?”
   “Indeed, Mr. President. And make it… unequivocal.”THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   “It was the right call, sir,” Admiral Denny Blevins said. He sat next to Secretary of State Brad Austin on a sofa across from President Cord Macklin and DNI Hartwell Prost in the Oval Office. “Even if we lost one of our guys in the process. It could have been much worse had one of those Sukhois fired onVinson.”
   The president read the short brief in his hands once more, then looked away over the rim of his glasses at the lights in the darkness outside of the Oval Office windows, processing what he’d read. He wore jeans and a sweatshirt he’d pulled on when they’d woken him to come down for the briefing. Two hours earlier, Super Hornets had shot down a pair of Chinese jets that attempted to reachVinson. But in retaliation, a Sukhoi had fired long-range missiles at another F/A-18E, killing the pilot, Lt. Cmdr. Trey Malloy.
   “I agree,” the DNI said. “The carrier group must be allowed to defend itself, otherwise—”
   Macklin raised a hand.“I’m not second-guessing the call, guys. I’m just… wondering what the response will be, though they already shot down one of ours. And while I’ll make sure that Brad goes all out broadcasting this as what it was, an act of self-defense, plus a cowardly missile attack on one of our planes over international waters, I have to think that Beijing is in turmoil over what happened. And I also think our newly elected president will be under pressure from the old guard to do something — or risk looking weak.”
   “We’re speaking to him in an hour, sir,” Austin said.
   “How are you going to play this, sir?” asked Prost.
   “Well, I was going to ask you guys for recommendations.”
   “I would play it down, sir,” Austin jumped in. “At least overtly. Try to defuse the situation. Use the self-defense card.”
   Macklin frowned. He removed his reading glasses, folded them, and looked at his secretary of state.
   “And I get it, sir,” Austin added, “that’s not your style — or mine. Hell, I just crossed swords with the Chinese ambassador over a few old pictures. But we’re at a strategic crossroads with China, one step away from an adversarial relationship with Beijing. That would be a colossal mistake, made even more difficult by the loss of two aircraft carriers.”
   “I agree, sir,” Prost said. “At this moment, we need cooler heads, especially since I strongly believe the new president over there is not only dealing with this crisis but also swimming in a pool of old-guard sharks.”
   Macklin inhaled before pointing the glasses at his chief of naval operations.“Denny? Thoughts?”
   “Well, sir,” Blevins said, dressed in his Service Dress Blues sporting a chest full of ribbons below his Navy SEAL gold trident. “This business is getting out of hand out there. I haven’t seen this much excitement since the Third Taiwan Crisis during the Clinton years. It’s close to becoming the fourth one. So, yes, it would be great for things to cool down a bit. Give our guys a chance to grab a cup of coffee.”
   “Okay,” Macklin finally said. “But I can’t allow them to continue to bait and harass our guys.”
   The president stood and walked to the windows next to his desk, the cue for the others to clear the room. Arms crossed, he played the conversation in his mind, trying to figure out exactly what he could say to the Chinese president that would be taken as an olive branch but without appearing weak. It would be a thin line to walk. He could only hope that President Jiechi would find a way to meet him halfway.* * *
   An hour later, just past one in the morning, Austin and Prost, along with a Chinese interpreter and an aide from the communications staff whose job it was to record the call, waited in the Oval Office. President Macklin, seated behind the Resolute Desk, stabbed the speaker button on his phone.
   “You shot down two of my planes, Mac,” Jiechi said.
   “Good morning, Xi,” Macklin replied. “And they were over international waters headed straight forVinson. Plus, you shot down one of my planes while it also was over international waters.”
   Silence, followed by,“That is not the report I received from my generals. Your planes were violating Chinese airspace.”
   “Then your generals are either lying to you or they don’t have control of their rank and file. I have undeniable proof from our space assets that the two Sukhois bypassed our BARCAP fighters and were within a couple of minutes of overflying the carrier. And, also that one of your Sukhois fired three long-range missiles from inside your airspace at a Super Hornet flying BARCAP over international waters.”* * *
   The Chinese president looked around the room. The faces of his generals, starting with his mentor, were carved in stone. None appeared surprised by this accusation, but neither were they protesting.
   “Mr. President, I’m not sure what this proof is, but the discipline of the military of the People’s Republic of China is known worldwide. Our pilots would not fire without provocation and would not violate international law. And you know I studied international law when I attended school in the United States after my undergraduate work at Oxford. I feel confident you understand me in this regard.* * *
   Macklin looked around the room, wondering if anyone else was as confused as he was.
   “Mr. President,” Macklin finally said, “I would prefer that we work together toward maintaining peace in the region. I do not want to embarrass you or your generals by publicly sharing the information I have. That would merely serve to inflame the situation.”
   After a long pause, Jiechi said,“President Macklin, I cannot be clearer on this matter: our planes were attacked in our airspace and acted in self-defense. If you don’t understand that aspect of international law, I suggest you take a short drive to Georgetown University and educate yourself.”
   What the hell does that mean? Macklin thought, shaking his head. He didn’t understand the resistance to working together to resolve the matter. He understood the Chinese didn’t like to lose face, but this was fantasy.
   “Mr. President,” Macklin replied. “If I must, I will release the proof that I have to the news media and the UN. It will be very embarrassing for your government.”
   “President Macklin, I stand by the account my generals have given me. However, we will…review the matter with our pilot and provide the United States with our own proof. I also strongly suggest you pull your aircraft carrier from the region to ensure there are no future… misunderstandings.”
   “I appreciate your willingness to provide us with ‘proof.’ I’m sure you understand that our carrier group will remain in international waters in support of the Taiwan Relations Act and for the safety of our allies in the region. Good day.”
   “Good day, Mr. President.”
   Macklin punched the off button on the phone. The translator and technician quickly cleared the room.
   “Well, that was a real W-T-F phone call. He can’t have any proof, can he?”
   Prost answered,“No, sir. My guess is that he’s sitting there with others during the call, so he couldn’t possibly take your side. He did say one thing I want to look into.”
   “What’s that?”
   “The references to Oxford and Georgetown. I would bet that was very intentional. I can’t help but wonder what he meant by that.”
   “By all means, look into it then.”
   As Prost, Austin, and Adair left the room, the president tilted his head back and closed his eyes, hoping like hell for no more incidents.
   — 24 —USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), TAIWAN STRAIT
   It took all of her concentration to get the MH-60F Seahawk off the very windy flight deck, even for an experienced pilot like Lieutenant Commander Kathy Lombardo from Helicopter Sea Combat Squadron 4 (HSC-4) of the“Black Knights.”
   She twisted the throttle at the end of the collective in her left hand and slowly raised it. Her feet worked the rudder pedals and her right fingertips the cyclic between her thighs, commanding the helicopter onto a steady hover.
   Mixing art, science, and skill at a level incomprehensible to fixed-wing operators, Kathy regulated the power delivered by the twin GE T700 turboshafts to propel this naturally unstable twenty-one-thousand-pound beast gently into the skies above the carrier strike group. Hauling a full load of three MK 54 torpedoes and equipped with active dipping sonar used to detect submarines, it represented the best America could offer in the anti-submarine warfare (ASW) department to protect the large carrier.
   “Very smooth,” commented her copilot, Lieutenant Danny Mendez, in charge of communications and weapons.
   “Just another day in the neighborhood,” she replied with a shrug.
   Entering a holding pattern at 1,500 feet provided Kathy with a great view ofVinson and its escorts operating halfway between Quanzhou on China’s mainland and Changhua on the Taiwanese side, remaining well clear of the northern end of the strait. Her mission this clear but turbulent afternoon was to search and destroy a rogue submarine that the intelligence briefing in the Black Knights ready room had indicated might be roaming the waters off Taipei, at the northern tip of the island.
   The same bastard that attackedStennis five days ago.
   But Kathy and her copilot weren’t alone in this massive search. Following a long racetrack pattern at 4,500 feet along the coastal waters of Taiwan, a Boeing P-8A Poseidon ASW aircraft scanned the strait with its APY-10 multi-mission surface search radar.
   Kathy glanced at her screen and spotted the returns from the Eightballers’ jet from Naval Air Facility Atsugi, Japan, performing a much wider search than her Seahawk. The militarized version of the 737–800 carried the same MK 54 torpedoes as her helo but also hauled mines and AGM-84 Harpoon missiles.
   “Where are you, little bastard?” Mendez commented over the intercom.
   Her eyes returned to the white-capped sea as she searched through her visor for any sign of the elusive submarine lurking in the turbulent water below.
   C’mon. Show yourself!SUBMARINEK-43, TAIWAN STRAIT
   Capt. Yuri Sergeyev had ordered all stop after clearing the northern end of Taiwan twenty-four hours earlier. Now the submarine drifted at a depth of 120 feet, as close as he felt comfortable drifting in the strait’s average depth of 180 feet, but deep enough to avoid detection by the overhead surveillance he knew would have been deployed by the Americans.
   Letting the China Coastal Current flowing southward in the western part of the strait propel him to a steady seven knots, the former Soviet Navy captain used rudders to steer the Type 212A ever closer to the carrier force. Moving through the water completely undetected, Sergeyev ignored the unsmiling crew members at their battle stations, especially Anatoli Zhdanov, who had approached him earlier that day in his cabin.
   “Captain,” Zhdanov had said. “You know I would never contradict you in front of the men, but everyone knows the risk if the crew of the freighter was detained and interrogated. Captain Orlov knows the details of our mission.”
   His second in command had been right, of course. Orlov, or even Aleksandr Radishchev, the crew member left behind aboardNuovoh Arana, could reveal the submarine’s new target if the freighter was unable to avoid American vessels.
   “We may be blundering into a trap, sir.”
   “If it looks like a trap, Anatoli,” he had told him, “we will head for the eastern side of the strait and let the currents takes us north, to the Sea of Japan.”
   Sergeyev frowned, thinking back on the conversation. He stroked his beard and pondered their odds, his gaze shifting between their speed, bearing, and depth, and the sonar station manned by Leonod Popov. The thing about traps, of course, was that you typically didn’t realize it was a trap until you were… well, trapped.
   Sergeyev looked over the shoulder of the bald-headed sonarman, who wore headphones and had his eyes closed as he monitored the traffic on the strait. The screen in front of the sonar station showed data on each ship being tracked. For the past thirty minutes, Popov had provided updates on the range and bearing to their final target.
   “Sonar, Conn,” Sergeyev said. “Range and bearing.”
   “Seven thousand feet,” Popov quietly reported. “Bearing zero-seven-four, Cap’n.”
   Sergeyev held his stopwatch, rolling it back and forth between two fingers.“Fire one,” he said, and punched the timer.BLACK KNIGHT SH-60F SEAHAWK
   Kathy Lombardo got an emergency call from the Boeing P-8 that a torpedo had just gone active and was trackingVinson.
   While Mendez made radio calls to the ASW assets protecting theVinson strike group, including a frigate hauling depth charges, she rushed the Seahawk to the coordinates where the torpedo was first detected.
   “Cut it loose,” she told Mendez, who worked his controls to release a single MK 54 torpedo.SUBMARINEK-43
   Sensing that he might not have the time he did when attackingStennis, Sergeyev said,“Fire two and three.”
   “Fire two and three, aye.”
   Just as the next two torpedoes left their launch tubes, Popov sat up in his chair.“Torpedo in the water!” he declared in obvious shock. “Five thousand feet, bearing two-four-zero!” Captain, it has acquired us!”
   “Emergency dive! Dive!” Sergeyev shouted. “Left full rudder! All ahead flank!”
   “Left full rudder!” Zhdanov repeated as he swore under his breath loud enough for Sergeyev to take notice. “All ahead flank!”
   The crew exchanged frightened looks as they ran from stern to bow dogging the hatches. In a matter of seconds, they had gone from being the hunter to being the hunted.
   “Make your depth four hundred feet,” Sergeyev ordered, staring at the chart next to him.
   “Captain! We’re going to hit the bottom!”
   Sergeyev pointed at the thirty-mile-wide Penghu Channel just south of their position formed by the Penghu Islands and the southwest coast of Taiwan, where the strait reached a depth of almost six hundred feet.“Four hundred feet, Anatoli. Now.”
   Zhdanov opened his eyes wide in sudden understanding and said,“Four hundred feet, aye.”
   Popov said,“Range three thousand five hundred feet, bearing two-four-zero! Time to impact one minute forty-five seconds.”
   Sergeyev reached for an overhead pipe asK-43 dropped at a near forty-degree angle through the thermal layers of the northern end of the Penghu Channel with a torpedo on its tail.USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), TAIWAN STRAIT
   The continuous sounding of the general quarters alarm had been accompanied by the ship’s loudspeakers blaring, “General quarters! General quarters! All hands man your battle stations!”
   Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski was on the bridge whenVinson’s skipper, Capt. Peter Keegan, wearing the mandatory dark-blue Improved Flame Resistant Variant coveralls and a matching cap sporting his rank, turned to his executive officer and barked, “Left full rudder and all ahead flank! CAT! CAT!”
   The XO, also wearing IFRVs, repeated the order in a commanding voice. Just then, Capt. James Buchelle, the ship’s CAG, reached the bridge, his face tight with an anger shared by Kowalski at having been surprised even after getting plenty of warning from USPACFLT about the rogue sub in the area.
   “Those fucking CATs better work, Dover,” the air boss whispered to Kowalski, who was familiar with the old-school last-ditch battle tactic. Without much time or maneuvering room, Keegan had decided to place the stern of the carrier in harm’s way. Just two years earlier, it would have been their only hope to rely on the incredible power generated by the nuclear reactors and steam turbines driving the huge propellers to produce enough turbulence to tumble a torpedo.
   But unlike the other carriers in the Nimitz-class fleet, the crew ofVinson had a prototype trick up their sleeve, borrowed from the Ford-class design: the Countermeasure Anti-Torpedo system, or CAT.
   An AN/SQL-25 acoustic device“Nixie” countermeasure sensor towed a hundred yards behind the carrier detected the presence of the incoming torpedoes. The Nixie’s receiver array sent the information to a computer on the bridge that calculated the projected trajectories and automatically passed the coordinates to the array of CATs mounted on the carrier’s port and starboard bow sponsons, the extensions of the flight deck over the water.
   Kowalski and Buchelle— as well as everyone on the bridge — turned to the tactical display screens on the bridge as the starboard system released six projectiles, two per torpedo, whileVinson continued its sharp turn away from the incoming threat.
   Resembling a video game, the screen showed the CATs rushing to intercept in the same manner as Sea Sparrows and RIM missiles would do in the air, but operating just below the surface.
   The first two CATs collided against the lead torpedo in an impressive explosion two thousand feet from the carrier. The next set of CATs converged on their target with another outburst of water and shrapnel. But as sometimes was the case with antimissile systems, the proximity of the second blast caused the last two CATs to veer off course and miss the last torpedo.
   “Twenty seconds to impact,” the operator reported as the last wisp below the surface approachedVinson’s stern.
   “Shit,” Keegan hissed, his jaw clenching as the carrier completed the turn and placed 260,000 shaft horsepower of force from its four massive screws in front of the threat.
   The 533-millimeter torpedo wildly undulated when it encountered the extreme turbulence from the churning wake of the powerful ship. The weapon swerved off course and exploded two hundred feet from the carrier’s port rudder.
   Damage Control Central soon had information from the area that had absorbed the explosion. The initial assessment was then relayed to the ship’s captain.
   After reviewing the initial damage control report, Captain Keegan ordered the ship to a speed of dead slow. The port rudder responded to commands, but it was not operating in unison with the starboard rudder. It would take a more detailed inspection to determine the exact damage.
   In the meantime, thought Kowalski,we better find the fucker before he tries it again.SUBMARINEK-43, TAIWAN STRAIT
   Eyes closed, Capt. Yuri Sergeyev counted the seconds while Leonod Popov updated him on the incoming torpedo.
   He then looked up and said,“Release countermeasures.”
   “Countermeasures, aye,” replied Anatoli Zhdanov.
   A moment later, a small Aselsan ZOKA acoustic decoy shot off the starboard side of the submarine and immediately created a noise barrier between the torpedo and the submarine asK-43 dove below two hundred feet.
   “Steady on course two-four-zero,” he ordered, knowing it would take another minute to reach four hundred feet.
   “Course, two-four-zero,” Zhdanov said.
   “Range six hundred feet. Twenty seconds to impact,” Popov warned.
   Sergeyev hoped to put as much distance as possible from the acoustic lure stirring the waters aft of his propeller.
   Popov looked up again before removing his headphones.“It’s going for the decoy!”
   Staring at his stopwatch, Sergeyev tightened his grip on the overhead pipe.
   The muffled explosion rocked the submarine over on her starboard side, spilling utensils and plates in the galley. The lights flickered a few times but remained on.
   “All stop!” Sergeyev commanded, killing all cavitation sounds following the explosion to try to trick the Americans while using the underwater currents to drift to deeper waters.BLACK KNIGHT SH-60F SEAHAWK
   Lt. Cmdr. Kathy Lombardo pushed the cyclic forward and lowered the nose of her helicopter to descend over the area where her torpedo had detonated.
   “No one is reporting cavitations,” Lt. Danny Mendez said. “I wonder if we got him.”
   “Nope. Bastard is still down there, Danny,” Kathy replied, watching the circle of foam marking the underwater explosion — too small to represent an imploding boat the size of a Type 212. The sub was still in one piece somewhere close to her position, likely drifting silently toward deeper waters, and in this part of the strait, it could only mean the Penghu Channel.
   Forcing herself to ignore the explosions nearVinson, she pushed the cyclic in the direction of the nearby islands, accelerating to 120 knots.
   “Where are we going?” Mendez asked as the white-capped ocean rushed beneath them.
   Kathy didn’t answer, figuring that almost a full minute had passed since the sub had fired those torpedoes. At a getaway underwater drifting speed of no more than ten knots, the elusive boat should be no farther than a half mile away. And that translated to less than ten seconds at her current speed.
   Counting to fifteen in her mind to get well in front of the enemy boat, she pulled back the cyclic and entered a hover two hundred feet above the spot she felt the sub was drifting toward.
   “Cut the other two loose, Danny!”
   Understanding her tactic, Mendez went straight to work, releasing their remaining MK 46s, which dropped from their attached points on either side of the Seahawk.
   Kathy adjusted the collective to compensate for the sudden loss of more than 1,200 pounds of weight, keeping the helo in a steady hover.
   “This makes three right back at you, assholes,” she mumbled as the weapons stabbed the boiling water surface.SUBMARINEK-43
   “Rudder amidships,” Sergeyev commanded when reaching a depth of four hundred feet while the underwater current pushed the boat at a steady eight knots. “Make your depth now five hundred feet.”
   “Five hundred feet,” Zhdanov repeated in a tense voice, staring at the navigation chart. “That should put us close to the bottom of the—”
   “Two more torpedoes in the water!” Popov interrupted in a chilling voice. “Bearing, three-five-zero. Range, two thousand feet. They’re coming straight at our bow!”
   “Our bow?”
   “Aye, sir.”
   “Dammit! All ahead! Right full rudder!” Sergeyev shouted, reeling in shock. He had not expected that. “Deploy port countermeasures!”
   Zhdanov repeated the order, andK-43 lurched forward then right as its electric motor kicked in, propelling the boat to fifteen knots.
   Again, the Turkish decoy system went to work, shooting two more probes off the left side of the vessel that immediately began to stir the water with acoustic energy, whileK-43 continued its tight right turn.
   Sergeyev cringed at the luck of whoever had dropped those two torpedoes right on his escape route. Even if the ZOKA system could fool the incoming threat,K-43 still needed time to distance itself from the impending explosions.
   “They’re turning away from us, Captain!” Popov reported, as the acoustic decoys worked their magic. “Bearing two-nine-zero. Range three hundred feet.”
   Too close, Sergeyev thought, silently cursing the American’s luck.
   A moment later two massive explosions shocked the submarine, shoving it on its side as the lights once more flickered but this time went out, replaced by the red glow of battle lanterns. The underwater shockwave caused multiple rivets to pop, shooting inside the control room like bullets. One of them struck a sailor in the head. Another one crushed the chest of the weapons operator next to Popov, who dove for cover. In an instant, his control room turned to noisy chaos.
   Sergeyev looked about the vessel the moment it finally stopped rocking.“Damage control!”
   Seawater sprayed from multiple leaks. Under the crimson light of the battle lanterns, the crew fought to stop the flow.
   “Two sailors are dead, sir,” Zhdanov reported. “And we’re taking on too much water.”
   But the worse part was a grinding sound in the propulsion system, sure to give away their position.
   “We’re making a very loud noise,” Popov observed in a state of panic, standing up thoroughly soaked while repositioning the headphones, water dripping from his nose and chin. “It’s from the main shaft… synchronized with the propeller.”
   Sergeyev spoke in a hushed voice, getting a whiff of foul-smelling fumes.“All stop.”
   “All stop,” Zhdanov said.
   The screeching racket stopped, replaced by the sound of splashing water.
   “Get those leaks under control!” Sergeyev ordered as he looked at the depth gauge. Almost 450 feet. “Rudder amidships.”
   Zhdanov looked Sergeyev in the eye.“Rudder amidships,” he said.
   “Depth charge in the water,” reported Popov.
   “Put us on the bottom, Anatoli,” Sergeyev ordered. “Now.”
   “On the bottom, aye,” Zhdanov said flatly.
   “Fifteen seconds,” Popov warned as the submarine descended.
   “Brace for impact,” Sergeyev said in a harsh voice.
   The explosion caused the Type 212A to lurch to port. New leaks spewed seawater over the control-attack center and shorted two electrical panels. The boat was heavily damaged and dark, except for the eerie glow from the battle lanterns, and she continued to take on water.
   Sergeyev kept an eye on the depth gauges, concerned about plowing into the base of the strait and causing more damage.
   At this point, every man in the control room glanced at Sergeyev, wondering what he might do to save their lives.
   “Looking at me isn’t going to stop those leaks!” he scolded them. “Tend to your work if you wish to live!”
   No one uttered a word as they slogged away.
   Silently the submarine descended, and a few moments later, the boat settled in the sediment with a pronounced thud.
   “More depth charges,” Popov announced, removing his headphones just before distant explosions resonated in the hull; they were too far to be of any consequence.
   “They don’t know where we are,” Sergeyev announced, perspiration dripping from his chin. He glanced around the darkened control-attack center. Taking stock of the very dangerous situation, he noticed the air had begun turning foul. As the temperature continued to rise, the sluggish men were beginning to shed their wet shirts and pants.
   Equipment deemed unessential was shut down while they continued working the leaks. Their wide eyes reflected the fear of the unknown, the gut-wrenching terror of dying by drowning.
   Without warning, the temporary silence was shattered by a powerful explosion nearby. The loud sound reverberated through the pressure hull as a reminder ofK-43’s unpleasant alternatives. Less than two minutes later, another shocking blast shattered the crew’s collective nerves.
   Glancing at the overheads for a moment, Sergeyev wiped his face with his sleeve.They aren’t sure where we are, but if we don’t move, sooner or later someone is going to get lucky.USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70)
   Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski and Capt. James Buchelle looked on asVinson’s skipper discussed options with Captain Roman Chavez, the carrier’s chief engineer.
   “In case you haven’t been keeping up with current events, Roman, we’re in the middle of a damned war!” Captain Keegan protested. “I can’t afford to stop the damn ship to fix a minor alignment problem when the duty helmsman over there tells me he can point the bow in any damned directionit needs to be pointed!”
   “It’s going to get worse, Pete,” Chavez argued. “And I just need a couple of hours for my divers to weld a quick patch.”
   Keegan looked at Buchelle. The CAG raised his brows at Kowalski, who shrugged and said,“As long as I can have a tanker available, I can keep my Dragons running BARCAP that long. We just can’t launch any more planes.”
   “Fine, Roman,” Keegan told his chief engineer, holding up two fingers in a V. “Two hours. Get it the fuck done.”SUBMARINEK-43
   As the crew finished sealing the leaks and resetting tripped electrical breakers, Sergeyev thought about ways to extricate his boat. On the positive side, the grinding problem had been isolated to vibrations in the main shaft caused by propeller damage during the explosions. But his ingenious team had been able to find a temporary solution to dampen the noise by welding counterweights onto the main shaft. To do so, they first had to vent the foul air in the engine room to avoid an explosion. But venting externally meant making noise, so the team timed it with the distant blasts of depth charges to keep their position hidden. After an hour of sporadic venting and another two welding, the patch was ready and expected to work well enough as long as they kept the speed slow.
   Sergeyev frowned. Good enough in his book meant that even at slow speed, those US Navy anti-submarine warfare assets might still hear him, given their proximity. For this to work, he needed to create some separation before taking a chance with the electric motor again and making a run for the nearest shipping lane into which they could disappear again.
   The Americans had certainly heard the grinding sound, and then noticed the absolute silence. And based on the continued depth charges, they had not bought his attempt at playing dead.
   As Sergeyev knew, the navy could stay on station indefinitely, dropping weapons in the general area, waiting to hear the grinding noise again.
   “Captain,” Popov reported, “theVinson has stopped its engines.”
   Sergeyev frowned.“It has?”
   “Yes, sir.”
   Rubbing his bearded chin, Sergeyev stared into his sonarman’s eyes, aware that the American carriers required forward speed into the wind to launch aircraft. They would never just stop in the middle of the strait. Unless…
   “The torpedoes,” Sergeyev finally said. “We must have damaged it enough to—”
   “But we hitStennis with five, sir,” Zhdanov interjected. “And it still kept going.”
   “Lucky shot?” Sergeyev offered with a shrug, remembering the first two explosions taking place too far from the carrier to have hurt it, but the last torpedo had managed to detonate very close to its target. But unlike withStennis, he had not heard any secondaries, meaning the damage had been minimal, but apparently enough to make it stop.
   “Either way,” Sergeyev added, “it’s an opportunity.”
   Seeing the puzzled faces of his two sailors, the captain said,“The last known position of the carrier placed it almost thirty miles from the coast of mainland China.”
   Zhdanov blinked in understanding.“Surface currents. It’s northbound on the Chinese coast and southbound on our side. And we get an added boost down here,” he added, referring to the thermohaline circulation they had used to drift closer toVinson in the first place. The underwater current created by the sinking of large masses of cool water relative to the warmer surface waters would provide the propulsion to get away.
   “Get us off the bottom,” he finally said. “Forty feet should do it. Then we can drift south of the strait.”
   — 25 —GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY, WASHINGTON, DC
   By the time Hartwell Prost reached a quiet street just north of campus, his team with no name had vetted every faculty member in the school of law and had zeroed in on a Dr. Teng Soh, professor of international law. A background check placed him at Oxford at the exact time that Xi Jiechi had attended the British university. Though now an American citizen, Dr. Soh had made multiple visits to Beijing in the past few years; according to university records, they were related to joint research projects with Peking University.
   It’s gotta be him.
   Standard tradecraft protocols required Prost to cross-check the intel by monitoring the professor’s phone conversations, hacking into his email account, and perhaps even shadowing the professor to make sure he wasn’t under surveillance. But time was of the essence, and more so now that, despite the best US Navy ASW precautions, the damn ghost sub had managed to launch three torpedoes atVinson and damaged it. So, the DNI had made the call to approach the mark as soon as his people performed a quick and dirty check for tails, which had brought him here this late evening in a somewhat desperate move.
   He stopped at a three-story brownstone halfway down the block. Standing in the shadow of a chestnut oak tree, he inspected the place, noticing the first-floor lights were on. The intelligence report indicated that the professor lived alone.
   Here we go, he thought, walking between two parked cars and crossing the street and opposite sidewalk before stepping up to the front door and knocking twice.
   A moment later, the door opened, and an Asian man well into his sixties, wearing khaki slacks, a white shirt, and a brown cardigan sweater, opened the door. He looked every bit the stereotypical professor.
   “May I help you?”
   “Professor Teng Soh?”
   “Yes?”
   “Professor, my name is Hartwell Prost. I’m the director of national intelligence for the United States—“
   “Good,” he interrupted before stepping away from the doorway to let him in. “Xi said someone like you might be stopping by. Took you people long enough.”THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   Restless and unable to sleep, President Cord Macklin crawled out of bed a few minutes before midnight and walked down to the Treaty Room. He couldn’t get the bizarre conversation with President Jiechi out of his mind, and the news that the ghost sub had actually fired torpedoes atVinson and damaged her, however small, had kept him tossing and turning. He hoped to God that his navy guys in the strait could get that carrier moving again and blow that damn sub to hell— and also that Prost’s hunch might pan out. His DNI, as well as the rest of the motley crew, were due to meet again at five in the morning.
   After ordering coffee and doughnuts from the kitchen, he browsed through a folder containing the latest in a long list of Chinese infractions from the summer of 2006 to the present.
   The US Treasury Department had frozen the assets of the state-owned China Great Wall Industry Corporation for brazenly assisting in the modernization of the Iranian ballistic missile program. Beijing had been providing highly classified US guidance systems for the Shahab-3 intermediate range missile.
   The extended-range variant of the Shahab-3, the 3ER, was an available delivery system for nuclear weapons. Israeli defense officials were deeply concerned that the 1,600-mile range missile could destroy Israel’s Dimona nuclear reactor. And if those Qader cruise missiles fired atLincoln were any indication of the caliber of the guidance systems in the Shahab-3ER…
   Macklin sighed in frustration. His eyes drifted to Healy’sThe Peacemakers. But as his tired eyes drifted from the equally tired face of Abraham Lincoln to the calmly poised General Grant, the intense General Sherman to the stoic Admiral Porter, the president could think of one thing only: coffee. He needed lots of caffeine, and he needed it now.
   What’s taking so damn long?
   He considered calling the kitchen but decided against taking out his frustration on his hardworking staff. Instead, he returned to the documents. In addition to the Iranian ballistic missile concerns, China had helped Tehran build several underground production facilities for the Shahab series. US space-based assets had identified numerous deeply buried targets in Iran.
   Macklin carefully studied an enlarged schematic diagram of the classified Massive Ordnance Penetrator. Short of a nuclear explosion, the MOP was a thirty-thousand-pound behemoth designed to overwhelm underground targets in Iran and North Korea. Where reinforced tunnels connected various research and development facilities, several MOPs would be dropped at the same time on vulnerable sections.
   After his coffee and snack finally arrived, the president took a moment to refuel before spending the next two hours browsing through dozens of pages of Chinese misdeeds and transgressions leading up to the present situation. China had long been challenging the US maritime presence in the Strait of Malacca, as well as the South China Sea.
   Removing his reading glasses, Macklin decided it was time to give the Chinese leadership in Beijing something to consider, especially after they had provoked US Naval vessels on a number of occasions, including this most recent incident.
   And then the bastards claimed we were violating their airspace.
   Macklin rubbed his temples, feeling a headache coming, but that didn’t stop him from conceptualizing a plan that would be overt in some ways and covert in others. The president wanted the leadership in Beijing to become paranoid about their military standing in South and East Asia. Flexing their military and economic powers, the Chinese were in the initial process of restoring their supremacy in the Asian region.
   President Macklin, in order to maintain the United States military preeminence in the Western Pacific, needed to send Beijing a strong, unequivocal message. If China continued to challenge America’s military position in the region, Beijing and her alliances in Southeast Asia would suffer great losses, both militarily and economically.
   The president knew the risk factor, but the alternative would be more pokes and jabs from the Chinese. The time had arrived to paint a new picture for the combined civilian and military leadership in Beijing.
   The time had arrived to“go downtown” on China.* * *
   A few hours later, Hartwell Prost, General Les Chalmers, and Admiral Denny Blevins assembled in the Situation Room for their scheduled session.
   Reading glasses in hand, Macklin stepped in as everyone took their seats.“Gentlemen, I’ll come right to the point,” the president said firmly. “WithVinson floating in the strait, we’re in a very tenuous position, and I intend to take some major threats off the table.”
   All eyes were riveted on Macklin as he continued his discourse.“I want to confront these threats before they emerge. Send a strong, tough message to those who might consider harming us in any way.”
   Turning to Prost, Macklin asked,“Did you deliver the package?”
   “Yes, sir. President Jiechi should have it by now.”
   Macklin nodded.“Good. Unfortunately, though, I can’t wait for him to rein in his damn generals, Hart. If he can’t get his military under control, pretty soon he will not have a military to control.”
   “What… what do you have in mind, sir?” Prost inquired.
   The president smiled before explaining his plan.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), TAIWAN STRAIT
   “Bobby, i have not traveled across the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea,and gotten my ass chewed off by COMSUBPACtwice, just to miss him now,” Cmdr. Frank Kelly groaned to his XO.
   “Gotta give that old Soviet Navy some credit, boss,” Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti replied quietly. “They sure knew how to train their skippers.”
   Kelly shook his head at the bizarre turn of events following the sinking ofMorgenthau and the interrogation of the freighter crew by CIA contractors. That had prompted Commander, US Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT) to order COMSUBPAC to order the Mighty Mo on a course directly toVinson, where he had been lying in wait, engines off, for the ghost sub to make its move.
   The commander cringed. The bastard had indeed made one, shooting three torpedoes at the carrier— a move that had telegraphed its position. But the nimbler Seahawk had beatenMissouri to the punch, firing three torpedoes in return and apparently damaging it. Now Kelly once more waited in complete silence, drifting at one hundred feet near its last known location.
   “Training or not,” Giannotti added, “that Russian skipper has some balls trying to go after another carrier. I mean, he had to know we’re onto him, right?”
   Kelly shrugged. He just wanted to finish this and give his brother— and everyone else who had lost relatives or friends aboardNorth Dakota—some sense of closure. And then get whatever ass he had left back to the Indian Ocean, where he didn’t have to worry about enemy subs.
   “Conn, sonar,” Petty Office Second Class Marshon Chappelle said from the quiet sonar station, which Kelly had boosted by deploying a TB-33 towable sonar array two hundred feet from the stern to give them some rear coverage.
   “Sonar, conn,” Kelly calmly replied. “Chappy, tell me some good news for a change.”
   “Sorry, sir,” Chappelle reported as he stared at his waterfall display. “Not a thing — he has to be lying stationary on the bottom.”
   “I think our boy’s right,” Kelly whispered to his XO. “Bastard’s on the bottom, playing possum, waiting for us to go away.”
   “Could be,” Giannotti said. “That grinding sound that Chappy recorded had to be from battle damage. Unless… it was a ruse to throw us off. He may have used a decoy. The weird noise is certainly a new twist.”
   Kelly crossed his arms, considered the possibility, and quickly discarded it.“I don’t think so, and neither do you.”
   The large XO shrugged.“Why don’t we give him a few to see if our boy can detect him?”
   Kelly gave him a rueful look.“If Chappy can’t find him, then he’s skipped town for deeper territory.”
   “Maybe,” Giannotti admitted. “However, I think we wait for him to make the first move. He can’t stay here very long, and he knows it.”
   “Then we better have everyone else leave the scene,” Kelly suggested. “If he thinks we’ve gone away, he might make a run for deeper water south of the strait.”
   “Yup,” Giannotti replied with a confident grin. “I’ll contactVinson and request that our ships clear this end of the strait.”SUBMARINEK-43
   They had been drifting for nearly three hours, skimming the bottom of the strait, first at around nine knots, then slowing down to six as they approached the southern end of the strait.
   Popov bolted upright.“Contact. Bearing zero-three-zero. Range one-four miles. It’sVinson, sir. It’s heading north along with the rest of the convoy.”
   “North?”
   “Yes, sir.”
   “Stay on them. What about the ships tracking us?”
   “All heading north, sir.”
   Sergeyev waited, counting the minutes, growing more confident, even allowing the possibility of escape to enter his mind again.
   “Contacts fading, sir,” Popov reported. “Heading confirmed. North.”
   Sergeyev nodded and said,“Set depth one thousand one hundred feet. No engine. No noise. Let’s continue drifting toward the nearest shipping lane.”
   “One thousand one hundred, aye,” Anatoli Zhdanov replied.
   The Type 212A had a maximum depth of more than 2,200 feet, but given the damage the ship had incurred, Sergeyev didn’t feel like testing it, settling for just half. It took another forty minutes beforeK-43 reached the desired depth, and once more Sergeyev looked at his sonarman.
   “But we can’t reach the shipping lanes without propulsion,” added Zhdanov. “These currents can only take us so far, and we’ve already slowed down to less than four knots.”
   Sergeyev silently cursed his predicament. His second in command was right. They needed propulsion to reach the shipping lanes, but he still wished he had more separation.
   “Sonar, conn,” the Russian captain finally asked, his voice steady. “Do you hold any contacts?”
   “Negative, not a sound,” Popov quietly replied as he closely monitored the sonar equipment. “I think we’re alone, sir.”
   “Ahead one-third,” Sergeyev ordered in a voice more confident than he felt.
   With his teeth clenched tightly, Zhdanov repeated the command.“All ahead one-third, aye.”
   Sergeyev, and everyone aboard, cringed, waiting to see if the engine room guys had indeed fixed the main shaft vibration.
   The propeller began turning but without a grinding noise.
   Feeling a surge of confidence, Sergeyev turned to Zhdanov.“Steady two-four-zero on the heading,” he quietly commanded, longing for a chance to escape. “Find us the quickest ride away from here.” He added, meaning the closest tanker or container ship to hide in its baffle.
   Zhdanov parroted the order before exhaling heavily.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780)
   “Conn, Sonar!” Chappelle said excitedly.
   “What do you have, Chappy? Same grinding noise?” Kelly asked, trying to hide the anticipation in his voice.
   “Negative, sir. They must have fixed it, but it’s our girl, all right. Bearing zero-four-five. Range zero-five miles. Depth eleven hundred feet. They’re trying to make a quiet run for the shipping lanes running on the hydrogen fuel cells.”
   “Very well,” Kelly replied, and then called the crew to battle stations. Their elusive prey was trying to disappear again. “Ahead one-third.”
   Giannotti relayed the commands to the pilot and copilot.
   “We’ll close on the sub,” Kelly added, “and set up a shot. I think we can bag him on the first try.”
   “Copy that,” Giannotti replied as they waited for the tracking party to gain a reliable picture.SUBMARINEK-43
   “Conn, Sonar,” Popov said in a stunned voice. “I have a contact, a Virginia-class sub closing on us from the stern.”
   Sergeyev vacillated a moment. He had to take drastic actions, andK-43 was limited in its ability to perform evasive maneuvers.“Ahead two-thirds,” Sergeyev ordered.
   “Captain,” Zhdanov cautioned. “The vibrations.”
   “Ahead two-thirds, Anatoli!” Sergeyev snapped.
   Zhdanov repeated the order, and a moment later the grinding noise returned.
   “Right full rudder,” Sergeyev said, knowing he couldn’t outrun the American attack submarine. He also couldn’t positionK-43 to take a shot at his tormentor unless he did something daring. He was going to attempt a circling maneuver to position his sub behind the American boat.
   Zhdanov carried out the order.“Right full rudder,” he said grimly.
   “Captain,” Popov said, his hands over the headphones. “I’ve lost contact. We’re making so much noise, I can’t get anything!”USS MISSOURI (SSN 780)
   “Conn, Sonar,” Marshon Chappelle said with unusual trepidation.
   “Conn, aye,” Frank Kelly responded with a sudden sense of concern. “What do we have, Chappy?”
   “Sir, the grinding noise is back… like hailstones pounding on a tin roof, scattered and completely jumbled.”
   “Are you able to track our target?” Kelly asked, anticipating bad news.
   “Sir, that high-pitched sound blanks out our returns,” Chappelle admitted as he studied his display screen. “I think she’s close, but I can’t tell for… crap! We just lost our TB-33! Bastard’s right behind us!”
   Realizing that the loss of their tactical sonar array towed two hundred feet behind the stern could only mean the 212A was about to ram them, Kelly shouted,“All ahead! Now!”
   Everyone aboardMissouri was pushed back as Giannotti executed the order, and the sub suddenly accelerated.
   “Do we have a VLS firing solution for the stern contact?” Kelly asked, referring to the vertical launch system.
   The weapons control officer opposite Chappelle gave him a thumbs-up.
   AsMissouri shot ahead at almost thirty knots, Kelly said,“Fire one.”
   A single MK 48 torpedo rose out of its vertical launching tube just forward of the conning tower in a burst of cold gas bubbles. The moment it cleared the hull, its pump jet engine propelled it away from the submarine, while its common broadband advanced sonar system located its target.SUBMARINEK-43
   “Contact! Torpedo!” Popov shouted. “Bearing two-three-zero. Range one thousand feet. Bearing two-two-zero… two-one-zero! Captain, it has acquired and is turning toward us!”
   “Countermeasures! Right full rudder! All ahead flank!”
   The port-side ZOKA system released a pair of acoustic decoys whileK-43 entered a hard turn to starboard.
   “Torpedo is turning away, sir! Range two hundred feet,” announced Popov as he removed his headphones.
   Sergeyev closed his eyes and grabbed an overhead pipe as a powerful explosion struck the submarine. The pressure hull trembled, as if struck by a massive hammer, before seawater gushed in from the port bow with the intensity of a dozen fire hoses.
   Out of choices, Sergeyev shouted,“Emergency blow! Surface! Put us on the roof! Now!”
   K-43 rose hard, tumbling several sailors, including Zhdanov. Sergeyev hung on to a pipe with both hands, nearly swinging from his feet. Popov also grabbed on to his station as electrical circuits began popping and shooting glowing sparks.
   But Sergeyev’s eyes were glued to the depth meter as it crossed four hundred feet.
   The vessel quivered, and for a moment he thought the internal bulkheads would collapse as the pressure started to equalize from the large amount of seawater pouring in.
   Three hundred feet.
   The hull creaked and rivets popped as computer screens went blank. The submarine suffered massive electrical failure as dark water cascaded from the breached bow to the stern, like white-water rapids splashing through the control room.
   Two hundred feet.
   His eardrums aching from the rapid pressure change, Sergeyev tightened his grip on the pipe as the metallic noises nearly drowned the roaring engine.
   Ninety feet.
   He held his breath when the air became thick with smoke from electrical short circuits as more electronics sparked, flickered, and went dark.
   Forty feet.
   The massive ship broke the surface at a speed of thirty-one knots, it’s bow rising out of the water nearly fifty feet before splashing down hard, kicking up towering curtains of white foam. The instant it settled, the submarine started listing toward the bow as the water level continued to rise.
   “She won’t stay afloat long!” Sergeyev shouted. “Abandon ship! Abandon ship!”
   Zhdanov staggered back and relayed the order before climbing up the conning tower as sailors rushed in from the stern and bow.
   “Let’s go, men!” Sergeyev shouted, shoving them one by one up the ladder, sunlight piercing down from the open hatch.
   It took less than a minute to get everyone up the tower while the water reached Sergeyev’s knees.
   With a final look at his control room, the former Soviet captain placed a hand on the small bulk on his heavy jacket’s pocket and headed up the ladder to face a brisk and windy afternoon.
   And that’s when he spotted the strangest ship he had ever seen off his stern. Light gray and shiny, it resembled more a submarine than a surface vessel.USS ZUMWALT (DDG 1000)
   “Tell me again why we shouldn’t just blow the bastards out of the water?” Cmdr. Briana Sasso asked, standing on the bridge between Cmdr. Ronald Cartwright and Art Gomez, watching as the submarine surfaced and quickly began listing toward its bow.
   “You can do whatever you want with the bastards, ma’am,” Gomez said with a grin. “As soon as I get what I want from them… starting with the captain.” He pointed at the bearded man emerging from the conning tower last.
   Briana took a deep breath, wondering which was the more merciful of the options for the wet and pallid crew gathered on top of their sinking vessel.
   — 26 —RESTORE-L SATELLITE, 140 MILES OVER THE SOUTH PACIFIC
   Launched a year before from Vandenberg Air Force Base, California, the low-Earth orbit servicing unit created by Space Systems/Loral in Palo Alto, California, made its final approach to the malfunctioning STSS-2 satellite from the US Missile Defense Agency (MDA).
   Designed and deployed for the sole purpose of repairing and refueling satellites in low earth orbit, Restore-L fired its helium verniers, slowing as it neared the military surveillance asset.* * *
   On the third floor of a nondescript building at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, twenty-nine-year-old Billy Culver, an engineer from Loral, sat behind his cluttered control console while his two uniformed clients from the Department of Defense looked over his shoulder.
   Sipping his third Red Bull since the start of his midnight shift three hours before, Billy barely touched his right thumb and index finger against the joystick control next to his keyboard. Moving it with the same finesse with which he’d masteredNinja Gaiden II andFlywrench, two of the most difficult video games ever designed, he maneuvered the service satellite right up to the underside of the SSTS-2. Tapping his keyboard, he focused two of its lenses on the graphite fiber exterior.
   “Whoa,” he said when he saw the round charcoal area roughly six inches in diameter getting progressively darker toward a quarter-size hole in the center. “Nasty burn.”
   “So, it’s confirmed, then,” one of the DoD men said as Billy snapped photos.
   “No shit, amigo,” Billy offered.
   “Good,” the other DoD man said.
   “Anything else, dudes? Gotta get to a job from GE next.”
   “Actually, two things,” the first uniform said. “What you saw is a matter of national security and—”
   “Yeah, yeah, blah, blah, blah,” Billy interrupted. “I get it. I have clearance, remember?”
   As the DoD men exchanged another glance, Billy added,“And the second thing?”
   “The photos. Could you send them to the email—”
   “Already done, dudes.”
   Within the hour, the images made it to the Pentagon, then the White house, confirming the suspicion that the SSTS-2 had been hit by a ground-based laser two days earlier, as it had cruised over the Chinese missile site at Guangdong.USS ZUMWALT (DDG 1000), LUZON STRAIT
   Sitting on a sleeping berth in a cabin belowdecks, Yuri Sergeyev awaited his fate.
   The submarine commander knew he was in an impossible situation, and the more he considered it, the more he questioned the order to surface. At least dying at sea in the execution of his mission would have given his family a chance to live and prosper in Chile.
   But now…
   As he contemplated his limited choices, a man in civilian clothes entered the stateroom. He looked Asian but his deep-bronze-colored skin suggested perhaps Indonesian or Filipino ancestry.
   “Captain Sergeyev.”
   Sergeyev nodded, then asked,“And you are?”
   The man didn’t show any annoyance at the question. “You may call me Bill, though I won’t pretend that’s my real name.”
   Sergeyev nodded.“Of course not. My crew is being looked after, Bill?”
   The dark Asian man again didn’t show any reaction. Instead, he reached into a pocket of the cargo pants he wore and produced Sergeyev’s phone.
   “Captain, in all seriousness, the fate of your crew depends on this conversation. If it goes well, they will be treated well. If it does not…”
   Sergeyev nodded again. He understood the threat.“In that case, please treat them very well.”
   The man looked questioningly at the captain.“And why would I do that?”
   Rubbing his bearded chin, Sergeyev tried to think this through one more time, because once he crossed that line there would be no going back.
   “Because,Bill, I can give you what your government wants.”
   The man tilted his head.“And… what would that be?”
   Sergeyev nodded toward the small, encrypted satellite phone and said,“The identity of my employer… and his location.”USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), TAIWAN STRAIT
   Standing next to his XO, Cmdr. Frank Kelly frowned as he looked around his control room. Now that the crew of the Type 212A had been transferred to USSZumwalt, COMSUBPAC had assigned the Mighty Mo to Rear Admiral Jack Swift, commander of the Carl Vinson Carrier Strike Group, while operating in the strait.
   Kelly’s new orders: intercept and track a Chinese Type 096 ballistic-missile boat that had entered the north end of the strait twenty-four hours earlier as part of the escort for the aircraft carrierLiaoning.
   Lying in wait, engines off,Missouri had fallen in its trail as the Chinese submarine had cruised by at a depth of two hundred feet, its crew apparently unaware that a US hunter-killer submarine had turned into its baffle.
   WhileLiaoning remained in the northern part of the strait, a good distance from theVinson carrier group, the Type 096 had headed south.
   For the past seven hours, Kelly had tracked it down the strait fifty miles off the coast of China, past the islands of Dongshan Dao and Nan’ao Da before reaching the Penghu Archipelago. The Type 096 had then continued south into the South China Sea, presumably headed to Yulin Naval Base, home of the ballistic submarines of the PLA Navy.
   “Need a word in private, Bobby,” Kelly told Giannotti. “Let’s go to my cabin.”
   “Yes, sir.”
   When they entered the commander’s small stateroom adjacent to Giannotti’s and across from the junior officers’ quarters, Kelly shut the door and then opened his safe. “Have a seat. You want to be sitting down when you read this.”
   Kelly reached inside and produced a classified document that had arrived along with their new orders but labeled COMMANDING OFFICER— EYES ONLY.
   “This has been authenticated, direct from the White House by way of Admiral Blevins to Commander, US Pacific Command to Commander, US Pacific Fleet. From there it was relayed to Admiral Swift, who passed it to me.”
   Giannotti frowned.“Boss, very few good things actually float downstream, and I get the feeling this isn’t one of them.”
   Kelly sighed, then handed it over.“Read the president’s direct order.”
   Still frowning, Giannotti read the directive and looked at Kelly as his scowl broadened to the point that it creased his forehead.“Skipper, am I missing something, an exercise?”
   “No, Bobby,” Kelly said. “It’s not a test or an exercise. It’s the real thing.”
   “As opposed to what we’ve been doing for the past week?”
   “This one’s straight from the top,” Kelly trailed off. “Though it’s unusual, to say the least.”
   “Yes, it is,” his executive officer replied, a troubled look on his face. “Definitely getting hot in the strait.”
   “Any doubts?” Kelly asked.
   “Not if it’s been authenticated by COMPACFLT,” Giannotti replied, referring to the commanders of the US Pacific Fleet.
   “The admiral wants it carried out as soon as practical, but left it at my discretion,” Kelly said with determination in his voice. “I’ve sat on it for the past several hours. In my view, this is as good a time as any. Concur?”
   “Yes, sir,” Giannotti said.
   “And I want you to be the officer of the deck when we execute it.”
   Giannotti just stared back.
   “You can handle it, Bobby.”
   “Thank you, sir. But for the record, I can’t believe we’re doing this.” Waving the piece of paper, he added, “You realize this is the only thing that differentiates us from a terrorist flying a plane with explosives into a carrier.”
   “I do,” Kelly said matter-of-factly. “But theirs not to reason why.” Then glancing at his wristwatch, he added, “I’ll brief the crew, and you’ll execute the order in ten minutes. Do you have any questions?”
   Slowly he shook his head.“I just hope we’re not kicking off World War Three here.”
   “Yeah,” Kelly said in a subdued voice. “If there’s any consolation, unlike the older Type 094 that carries twelve JL-2 SLBMs, the new Type 096 houses twenty-four, each with almost a five-thousand-mile range and up to four independent nuclear warheads in the ten-megaton range. If the bastardgets within a thousand miles from our west coast, it could shower us with little-to-no warning.”
   After a heavy sigh, Giannotti added,“I’ll go to the control room now, sir.”* * *
   Giannotti rose from his seat with a flurry of questions on his mind that were well beyond his pay grade, but he understood that orders were orders and that the time had come for him to show he had what it took to command one of these boats. He took a deep breath as he approached the watch station for the officer of the deck. He relieved the lieutenant and then made a quick mental assessment of the operational situation.
   Shortly thereafter, Cmdr. Kelly made his surprise announcement to the crew. They would be conducting a first for the attack submarine.Missouri had a direct order to kill the pride of the Chinese submarine fleet.
   “Range to target?” Giannotti asked.
   “Three thousand feet,” Chappelle replied. “Bearing three-six-zero. Speed one-five knots.”
   “Ahead slow,” Giannotti ordered, in order to create a little more separation.
   “Ahead slow, aye.”
   Counting the seconds in his head, he asked again,“Range to target?”
   “Three thousand five hundred feet, sir,” Chappelle replied.
   After receiving confirmation from the weapon systems officer thatMissouri had a firing solution, Giannotti took a deep breath and said,“Fire one.”
   “Fire one, aye.”
   Counting to five in his head, he said,“Fire two.”
   “Fire two, aye.”
   The pair of MK 48 ADCAP (advanced capabilities) heavyweight acoustic-homing torpedoes rushed out of their bow tubes, and their sonar and all-digital guidance systems locked on to the stern of the Type 096.
   “Twelve seconds to impact. Type 096 starting evasive maneuvers. Both torpedoes have acquired. Type 096 has released countermeasures. Five seconds to impact. Countermeasures ineffective,” Chappelle reported before removing his headphones.
   Although there were only two torpedoes, the large SSBN exploded three times— the third being the largest of the blasts, even rattlingMissouri more than a half mile away.
   Chappelle put his headphones back on, listened for a moment, then said,“Confirming breakup of target, sir.”
   “Set depth six-zero feet,” Giannotti ordered.
   A couple of minutes later, high-definition video of the field of debris floating south of the Luzon Strait filled two of the flat screens.
   “Ahead one-third. Right full rudder,” Giannotti ordered, to maneuver the attack submarine around the perimeter of bits and pieces floating on the surface.
   He inhaled deeply, staring at the debris, and for a moment questioned his lifelong dream of commanding an attack submarine.
   Feeling the gaze of the men inside that control room waiting for his next order, Giannotti calmly turned to the radio station and said,“InformVinson. Mission accomplished.”
   “Aye, sir,” replied the senior electronics technician, working his controls to relay the message.
   A minute later, as they continued circling the flotsam, the printer next to the senior technician churned to life. Unfortunately, rather than receiving the standard acknowledgement reply from the fleet, and perhaps even an“attaboy,”Missouri simply received new orders directly from Admiral Swift.
   After reading the directive twice, Giannotti sighed and said,“Set depth three hundred feet. Bearing two-seven-zero.”
   As the crew executed his order to get them back to the Taiwan Strait, he gave the drifting remains of the Chinese sub a final look. He reached inside his shirt and found the cross he wore. Holding it, he said a silent prayer for the souls of those whose lives had just been taken.May the Lord have mercy on them… and on us.
   Then he calmly left the control room in the hands of a lieutenant and headed back to Cmdr. Kelly’s cabin.
   — 27 —THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   President Cord Macklin stepped inside the Treaty Room with Hartwell Prost in tow and found a contraband McDonald’s lunch on his desk, courtesy of his crafty DNI. But before he could turn to that, he sat and asked, “Is there any reason to believe they got a message out before they sank?”
   “Given the Chinese sub’s depth at the time, it seems highly unlikely.”
   “And it’s confirmed that we lost one of our satellites.”
   “Confirmed. A high-energy laser punched a hole right through it.”
   Frustrated and angry with the leadership in Beijing, Macklin struggled to suppress his displeasure and hostility.“Dammit. What are the bastards thinking? And how should we counter this?”
   “We just sank their new sub, Mr. President, with considerable loss of life. I’d say that serves the purpose.” He paused, choosing his next words carefully. “I know you and Brad are into this ‘going downtown’ approach,” he said, making quotation marks with his fingers. “But perhaps we should focus on de-escalating for the moment.”
   The president studied his friend, then nodded.“Soon, Hart. Soon. But first we are going to extract another pound of flesh.”
   “Yes, sir,” Prost said, “but let’s leave the bastards a chance to save some face. You know that’s important to them.”
   The president nodded, then spoke again,“Speaking of bastards, are we set on the other thing?”
   Prost nodded.“Happening real-time,” he said, turning on the screen at the end of the room in time for the White House press secretary to reach the podium and brief reporters that three torpedoes had been fired atVinson, damaging it.
   “I’m going to catch hell for this,” Macklin said.
   “Technically it’s all true, sir. One of them did damage the carrier.”
   “And Denny reported it’s already been fixed.”
   “A minor detail that will be released after, sir. But it’s all part of the illusion… so we can bag him this time.”
   “Yeah, in return for the immunity deal I signed,” Macklin said with a sigh, before adding, “if it ever gets out that I pardoned the motherfu—”
   “It’s the head we’re after, sir,” Prost reminded him, “not one of its tentacles.”
   “I know that, Hart… still. The bastards killed hundreds of sailors, woundedStennis, and sankNorth Dakota,” Macklin said. I’m having a hell of a time wrapping my head around the fact I actually signed the damn piece of paper.”
   Prost was about to reply when Macklin waved him away, feeling quite disgusted with himself.“I need a moment, Hart.”
   His DNI promptly left the room, and the president just stared at his lunch, at the juicy burger and salty fries. He looked at the beads of condensation running down the side of his very sweet chocolate shake. But his all-time favorite comfort food, the one that he’d even sneak around Maria to eat, suddenly made him nauseous.
   Pushing it all aside, Macklin just stared at the TV as his press secretary fielded questions from the media, piling up lies on top of lies.
   Closing his eyes, he prayed that Prost and his team would make it all worth it and get it right this time around.SANTO ERASMUS, SEVENTY-FIVE MILES SOUTHWEST OF VIRGINIA BEACH
   “But we already had an inspection.” Javier Ibarra waved the Recreational Boating Safety certificate he had been issued three days earlier.
   “I realize that, sir,” said Petty Officer Second Class Mark Lassiter after reviewing it. He was a thin man in his early thirties with a wispy mustache. He and his team had just boarded the yacht from a Response Boat-Medium (RB-M), a utility Coast Guard vessel roughly half the size ofErasmus.“But we’re here on a PWCS,” he added, identifying the nature of his mission: Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security.
   Wearing a pair of white shorts, a blue T-shirt, and sandals, Ibarra made a face.“What does that have to do with us? We’re on a pleasure fishing cruise.” The PWCS was a far more thorough inspection than the RBS conducted by the cutter, which meant there was a risk that the inspectors might stumble onto the secret hatch for the compartment below the main salon — a risk he could not take.
   “Just following orders, sir,” Lassiter said. “But we should be through in a couple of hours. Then you can be on your way.”
   As the petty officer signaled two sailors to come aboard— each bearing the same model 9 mm Beretta 92FS hanging from Lassiter’s belt — Ibarra did his own signaling to his team.
   Ever since his contact in Newport News had messaged Ibarra that she had to go dark after her cover was blown, the seasoned smuggler had noticed an increased level of activity on all the standard Coast Guard channels, as well as on his radar screen, indicating the possibility that the Americans might be onto them. Though the fact thatSanto Erasmus had not been encircled by the US Atlantic Fleet— or just blown out of the water by a missile from an overhead drone — suggested to Ibarra that they did not yet know his vessel’s name.
   For now.
   That same radar screen had also told him that the Coast Guard RB-M was the only ship in the vicinity, and that, combined with the fact that dusk was less than three hours away, presented him with a unique opportunity to put an old smuggling trick into practice.
   He shifted his gaze between the three armed inspectors moving across his yacht and the fourth sailor that remained on the Coast Guard RB-M, his arms resting on top of an M240B machine gun aimed his way. Ibarra then ran the fingers of his left hand through his hair.
   It happened very fast.
   A flash of orange and yellow flames from the RPG-32 Mario Mendoza had balanced on his right shoulder shot out toward the RB-M’s bridge with a muzzle velocity of 445 feet per second. The thermobaric shell engulfed the center of the Coast Guard vessel, including its gunner, in an almost blinding light as its warhead generated a very high-temperature explosion.
   AsSanto Erasmus rocked from the shock wave and a blast of heat swept across the deck, Ibarra produced a .45-caliber Sig P220 pistol from behind his back, where it has been pressed against his spine, and shot Lassiter in the back of the head, while Sammy Chen and Jorge Diaz handled the other two sailors.
   After untying the mooring lines, Mendoza steered his boat away from the RB-M as the fire spread across the vessel’s stern. His crew tossed the three bodies overboard, and Ibarra ordered the diesels ahead two-thirds, on a bearing that would takeSanto Erasmus toward the coast of North Carolina.
   “There will be more coming, Javi,” Diaz said, pointing at the sky. “And they will fire first and ask questions later.”
   “I’m counting on it,” Ibarra said.GRAND HOTEL KEMPINSKI, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND
   Prince Omar Al Saud loved this enchanting gem of a city in the southwestern corner of the country, nestled in the Rhône Valley. A major center for financial activity, commerce, and the headquarters of many international organizations, it had been built in the classic pattern of many old European cities, radiating in an organized fashion outward from its original center.
   Sitting on the large covered balcony of the penthouse suite of the luxurious hotel— just one of the rooms that had been reserved, along with the entire floor — Al Saud enjoyed a celebratory late-afternoon cappuccino while watching the news from America on an eighty-inch flat screen hanging from the wall. The White House press secretary stood behind a podium reporting on the damage done toVinson. He smiled, imagining the chaos and destruction.
   He shut off the TV and turned to look out the window at the mirror-smooth surface of Lake Geneva. The majestic Alps rose in the distance. He pondered the phone call he had had only two hours earlier with the Russian submarine captain.
   To be honest, the Saudi prince could not figure out how the Russian had been able to badly damage one aircraft carrier, sink an attack submarine, and then disable a second carrier, with the latter operating on high alert in the crowded waters of the Taiwan Strait. And then he had managed to escape with only minor damage to the sub after enduring a night of depth charges.
   Amazing, he thought, thinking about the press conference.Vinson was damaged, drifting in the Taiwan Strait, just as China continued its military buildup along the coast.
   Al Saud had immediately transferred the promised funds to Sergeyev and his crew. After all, a deal was a deal. And besides, he probably could use their services again in the—
   Someone rang the suite’s bell.
   Al Saud turned at the intrusion, looking through the half-opened sliding glass doors that separated the balcony from the living area.
   He motioned to one of the five guards scattered throughout his suite to check it out. Al Saud had another dozen men covering every access point to his top-floor retreat, three more in the lobby by the elevators, plus six more guarding his brand-new Bell 525 helicopter on the roof, with a pilot standing by. After the narrow escape fromAzzam, he wasn’t taking any chances.
   Holding a Mac-10 pistol in his left hand, the guard used his right one to inch the door ope—
   And that’s when a cylindrical object flew through the opening, skittering inside.
   Before his mind could register what was happening, the concussion grenade went off.
   Al Saud fell to the ground stunned, half-blinded by the intense flash, his ears ringing.
   He tried to move, to get up, to make a run for the stairs leading to the helipad. But instead, a figure forced him on his belly and secured his wrists and ankles with flex-cuffs, while another one placed a bag over his head.
   “Stop… who… are you?” he mumbled, fighting the urge to vomit.
   “Room service,” a man replied before hoisting him over his right shoulder with incredible ease.
   “For one,” added another.
   Then he felt the pinch of a needle and quickly lost consciousness.* * *
   Cmdr. Jake Russo hauled his high-value target up the stairs to the roof, followed by three other members of his SEAL team, and pushed through the door just as a Super Stallion thundered from the lake and took up a position hovering beyond the prince’s Bell 525. Two other SEALs waited there. The bodies of the prince’s guards and pilot lay near the helicopter.
   The transfer took less than a minute, and before the authorities descended on the luxury hotel, the Sea Stallion was already back out over the water, cruising at two hundred knots on its way to Panzer Kaserne Marine Corps Base in Boeblingen, Germany.
   Russo strapped the prince into a seat in the rear of the cabin before removing the black bag. He nodded to a navy corpsman, who took the prince’s vitals, and then gave him another injection.
   Slowly the man’s eyes fluttered open. His head moved side to side as he tried to orient himself. After a minute, his gaze came to rest on the SEAL commander.
   Russo watched the man’s face transition from surprise to anger.
   “Do youknow… who you just kidnapped?” Al Saud growled.
   Russo smiled and then asked,“The biggest dick to ever walk the earth?”
   Then he took an encrypted satellite phone from a cargo pocket and dialed a number.“Package en route,” was all he said before he hung up and turned to join his men.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), TAIWAN STRAIT
   “Look at the positive side, sir,” Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti said. “Pretty soon we’re bound to run out of ammo and have to head home.”
   “I’d settle for forty-eight-hour liberty in Subic Bay,” Marshon Chappelle chimed in from the sonar station. “Don’t know about you guys, but I’m starting to forget what a girl looks like.” Although the navy had allowed women on submarines since 2010, there were none aboard this tour ofthe Mighty Mo.
   “Tired of your whales, Chappy?” Giannotti asked.
   At the moment,Missouri cruised eleven thousand yards from the starboard side ofVinson at a depth of sixty feet. The high-definition cameras mounted on the photonic masts fed the flat screens with the surrounding surface activity— or lack thereof. Aside from the distant flattop silhouette of the carrier, he saw no traffic on the dark waters southeast of Kaohsiung, Taiwan, and nothing floating in the vicinity of the submarine. The stars were shining brightly, and the moon hung low in the western sky.
   “Set our depth one-two-zero. Ahead one-third. Rudder amidships.”
   Cmdr. Frank Kelly watched the crew carry out the order to get the submarine into firing position, and a few minutes later, he said,“Fire one.”
   “Fire one, aye,” Giannotti repeated.
   The weapons officer worked his keyboard before reporting,“Missile away.”
   On the screen, a burst of cold gas shot the BGM-109 Tomahawk Land Attack Missile (TLAM) out of its Vertical Launching System forward ofMissouri’s sail and toward the surface, before it accelerated to its cruise speed of 545 miles per hour in the direction of the lower coastline of China.
   “Fire two.”
   A second TLAM shot out of an adjacent VLS and shadowed the first one.
   The eighteen-foot-long missiles stabilized in flight at low altitude as they streaked toward their target, relying on Global Positioning System for time-of-arrival control and navigation capability.
   “Set depth three-zero-zero. Ahead two-thirds,” Kelly ordered before leaving Giannotti in command and retiring to his cabin, where he grabbed the five-by-seven photo and gazed into the smiling faces of his twin girls in a feeble attempt to avoid thinking about the souls that would be dead at hishand within the next ten minutes.GUANGDONG PROVINCE, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   The three guards on duty at the missile site were enjoying an evening of freedom from their humorless sergeant of the guard, who had taken ill late in the afternoon.
   The two corporals and a private first class were playingDa Bai Fen, a popular Chinese card game, while eating dried fish snacks and looking forward to breakfast.
   The men were joking and laughing when they heard an odd sound in the distance and immediately stopped talking, carefully listening to the eerie screech. But none of them recognized the high-pitched noise.
   The strange sound grew louder. The men looked at one another blankly before the obvious conclusion dawned on them, and they scrambled over one another to reach the nearby bomb shelter.
   The first Tomahawk missile exploded in the middle of the compound, injuring the three guards and trapping them in the debris. In shock and disbelief, the three men heard the terrifying sound again. One of the men tried to crawl away, just as the second missile landed eight feet from the first point of impact, instantly killing the guards.
   The back-to-back blasts, a combined two thousand pounds of high explosives, reached not only a dozen ballistic missiles on their fixed launching stations, but also an adjacent two-story concrete and steel structure fed by a small power station.
   The fireball ignited the solid-rocket propellant in the missiles, triggering secondary explosions that licked the sky, the crimson glow of the resulting fire visible for miles. Sparks flew from severed electrical cables, and then the power station exploded, taking with it the entire structure it served: a state-of-the-art, ground-based anti-satellite laser system.
   — 28 —THIRTY-EIGHTH STREET BROWNSTONE, WASHINGTON, DC
   Bearing two-one-zero. Speed one-six knots,” reported a sailor who sat behind a console on the first of three rows of operators working in the mission-control-like room.
   Capt. Christine Blake stood with Hartwell Prost at the end of the front row. The DNI stared at the rightmost projection screen, which showed a beautiful motorsailer yacht cruising through calm seas.
   “A Reaper started tracking it an hour ago,” Blake said, referring to a General Atomics MQ-9 Reaper unmanned aerial vehicle. “It’s coming from the suspect HVT grid and also the same location where we spotted the burning Coast Guard patrol boat, who reported approaching this specific vessel for inspection almost three hours ago. A cutter is on an intercept course. We want to reach it before it gets dark.”
   Prost frowned at the fact that it had taken his“supposedly” nimble task force more than two hours from the time the patrol boat had been attacked to the time they were able to locate and start tracking the runaway yacht.And while inside their“supposedly” focused search area.
   We have to do better than that, he thought, staring at the video feed from the UAV flying a racetrack pattern off the Virginia coast. The yacht had been identified as theSanto Erasmus.
   “It left Lisbon six days ago headed for Newport News. One of our deep-sea cutters ran a routine boat safety inspection on it three days ago.”
   Prost nodded.“And?”
   “It says here that it was issued an RBS certificate for seaworthiness.”
   “Of course,” Prost said.
   “It’s currently headed southwest,” said Blake. “Away fromFord and the naval station.”
   Prost tilted his head at her and said,“Probably has to do with our missing Newport News spy giving its crew a heads-up before going dark.”
   “It’s currently forty-one miles northwest of Wilmington, North Carolina, on a bearing that will take it fairly close to MCAS New River,” Blake added, referring to the large Marine Corps air station in New River, North Carolina.
   “We can’t let it get anywhere near our coast, Captain,” Prost said, his eyes on the yacht as it reflected the setting sun’s orange light.
   “The cutter’s five minutes out.”
   “Has it made contact with the yacht?”
   Blake shook her head.“Negative, sir. Nonresponsive. And we can’t see anyone.” She tapped her tablet, and the image zoomed in over the bridge as she added, “Though it’s hard to see through its windows reflecting the sunset.”
   “Take it out, Captain,” Prost said.
   Blake looked up from her screen.“But the Coast Guard will get there in—”
   “Now, Captain. Put a Hellfire through its bridge, and order the cutter to back off, just in case.”
   “In case of what, sir?”
   He shrugged.“In case it’s carrying enough explosives to damage a carrier. I don’t want the cutter anywhere near it.”
   Blake did a double take on him, then she said,“Yes, sir,” and worked her tablet for a few seconds before announcing, “Stand by for missile shot.”
   It took about forty seconds for one of the Reaper’s AGM-114 Hellfire missiles to reach its target. One moment, the yacht was coasting through pristine waters and the next it vanished in a white-and-red explosion that filled the screen. When the image returned, the large yacht had stopped and fire billowed from its bridge just as one of its masts toppled over. But it was still afloat and largely in one piece.
   Prost frowned.“What type of warhead was that?”
   “MAC, sir,” Blake replied, referring to a metal-augmented charge. “Eighteen pounder.”
   “Then something’s wrong,” Prost said, staring at the vessel drifting beneath a rising column of smoke.
   “No secondaries?” Blake offered, reading his mind.
   “Right,” Prost said. “If there was indeed a large bomb or missiles or torpedoes aboard — enough to damage a carrier — their charges should have gone off, vaporizing that yacht.”
   “Unless…they somehow got the explosives off,” Blake said.
   “You think it met up with another boat?”
   “There was that gap of more than two hours from the time we lost contact with the Coast Guard patrol boat to the time we started tracking it,” Blake said. “So, it’s possible.”
   Prost made a face, then asked,“Captain, do you have a copy of the Coast Guard’s RBS inspection report from three days ago?”
   She tapped her screen, then tilted it toward him.“What are you looking for?”
   “What’s no longer there,” he replied, staring at the screen for a moment before looking away in disgust.
   “Damn,” Blake said. “They had a Boston Whaler secured to the yacht’s forward deck.”
   “And I don’t recall seeing one a moment ago,” Prost said.
   Blake immediately reversed the video.“You’re right, sir,” she said, zooming in on the vessel’s bow. “No Whaler.”
   “We’ve been conned,” Prost said, closing his eyes as he thought of one type of bomb that could be hauled aboard a Boston Whaler, yet capable of damaging a carrier. “That’s our new target, Captain,” he added.
   “Sir,” Blake replied. “That’s a very popular boat. There have to behundreds of them in these waters, and the RBS doesn’t specify model or size. And we’re almost out of daylight.”
   “Then we’d better hustle,” Prost said. “Send out an emergency broadcast to all Coast Guard vessels, law-enforcement patrol boats, and every available aerial asset. Find and stop every last Boston Whaler on the Eastern Seaboard and prioritize those within a hundred miles from Virginia Beach.Also send word toFord… and pray to God we’re not too late.ENTRANCE TO CHESAPEAKE BAY, VIRGINIA
   The old-school con required three elements. First, the victim had to suspect they were the target of a con. Second, the victim had to think they had figured out how to beat the con. And third, the victim had to be wrong about the true nature of the con.
   Javier Ibarra had learned the old trick— immortalized by American jazz pianist and bandleader Bennie Moten in his 1926 song — from his mentor in the smuggling business.
   In this case, he had begun the ruse by openly destroying that patrol boat, signaling his presence to American assets in the region. He then had sacrificed his belovedSanto Erasmus by dispatching it on a southwesterly course, away from his expected target, prompting coastal defenses to rush in the wrong direction, and making them think they had figured out his alternate plan. Finally, Ibarra had steered the very nimble Boston Whaler at almost forty-five knots toward their real target, while being ignored by a number of patrol boats and cutters speeding toward the North Carolina coast.
   And now they’re about to find out how wrong they were, he thought.
   They had stopped in near darkness beneath the last span of the bridge by South Thimble Island, the small body of land where Highway 13, running north from Virginia Beach via a two-lane bridge, transitioned into a tunnel beneath the bay. Continuing north for nearly a mile, the highway resurfaced at North Thimble Island, transitioning back to a bridge all the way to Cape Charles. The bridge-tunnel-bridge design spanning the twelve-mile entrance from the Atlantic Ocean allowed easy access for carriers and other large vessels in and out the bay without the need for a tall bridge.
   Ibarra remained in the Boston Whaler, while his deckhands launched an Intex Excursion 5 inflatable dinghy with room for up to five adults. He entered the code for the weapon’s case and opened it carefully. Though completely stable, he couldn’t help but feel any wrong move would cause it to detonate.
   Next, he lifted the plastic cover on the device’s keypad and entered the authorization code he’d committed to memory. This armed the device and brought him to a screen requiring him to set a timer. He entered fifteen minutes — long enough for the speedboat to reach its target in Hampton Roads less than ten miles away.
   From here on out, he would rely on the Whaler’s Raymarine autopilot — which he slaved to the course plotted in the boat’s Garmin GPS — to complete the mission.
   Closing and locking the metallic case secured to the stern, Ibarra started the engine and engaged the autopilot, before glancing over at his team on the dingy floating a few feet off starboard. Slowly he advanced the throttle to the two-thirds’ setting.
   As the boat surged from beneath the concrete bridge span under the power of its Mercury engine, he dove off the side and swam toward the Excursion, where Mario Mendoza and Jorge Diaz helped him aboard. Sammy Chen then turned on the Minn Kota Endura trolling motor secured to an Intex motor mount, since the Excursion lacked a transom.
   Slowly, and remaining within the protective night shadow cast by the bridge, the foursome began to make their way to the shores of Virginia Beach less than three miles away as the growl of the Boston Whaler’s engine vanished in the distance.* * *
   The whaler cruised uninterrupted for nearly twelve minutes at thirty knots under a star-filled night, passing dangerously close to a pleasure yacht and two fishing boats. Though everyone aboard the three vessels heard the rumbling engine, no one actually saw it. A Coast Guard Defender-class patrol boat finally spotted it skimming the waters south of King-Lincoln Park before turning to a northwesterly heading into Hampton Roads along a course less than a quarter of a mile from the shores of Newport News.
   The Defender gave chase, focusing a spotlight on the boat’s stern. The moment its captain realized it was unmanned, he ordered the sailor manning the bow-mounted M240B to open fire.* * *
   Two miles away, on a pier near the intersection of 33rd Street and Sunset Terrace, Cmdr. Jeff Weathers, the executive officer of USSGeorge H. W. Bush, had kept his ship on general quarters since receiving the alert less than thirty minutes prior of a possible rogue Boston Whaler approaching the Virginia coast.
   He turned toward the petty officer manning the radio console as chatter exploded; the crew of the Defender had engaged an unmanned Whaler headed its way. Weathers didn’t even need his binoculars to see the distant flashes of machine gun fire.
   A couple of seconds later, the reports reached the carrier.
   Weathers raised the binoculars, focusing them on the shifting spotlight dancing over the deck of a white boat that—
   Shit. Shit. Shit!
   The attack onTruman still fresh in his mind, as well as the near miss on his own carrier, Weathers immediately ordered the sailors armed with shoulder-launched Stinger missiles to focus on the rogue boat.
   The well-trained crew jumped into action, and within thirty seconds, four bright plumes rocketed away fromBush toward the Boston Whaler, now floating roughly a third of a mile away, its single outboard engine on fire after taking multiple hits from the Defender boat.
   And that was the last thing he saw.* * *
   Inside the metallic case, a charge of conventional explosives fired a hollow uranium“bullet” down the barrel of the gun-type weapon, striking its cylindrical uranium target and achieving critical mass.
   In microseconds, the exothermic reaction heated the air to incandescence as the fission event unleashed incomprehensible amounts of thermal energy into the surroundings, vaporizing the Boston Whaler, the Defender, and hundreds of thousands of gallons of seawater. The chain reaction created a fireball that reached almost eight hundred feet high, visible as far away as Richmond.
   The airburst that followed a half second later propagated radially across the water toward Newport News with a pressure of more than two hundred pounds per square inch. The shockwave dropped to eighty psi five hundred feet from shore and down to twenty psi by the time it reached the shores of Christopher Newport Park at the western end of downtown Newport News.
   The pressure wave crushed moored boats, surrounding warehouses, waterfront businesses, and parking garages. It slammed into the Newport Towers and River Park Towers apartment complexes just beyond Christopher Newport Park at fifteen psi, collapsing them. Dropping to five psi while propagating east toward West Avenue— roughly a thousand feet from the water — it shattered windows and tossed vehicles. It finally turned into a gust of very hot forty-mile-an-hour wind by the time it swept across Washington Avenue, almost a quarter mile from shore.
   In the second that followed the blast, collapsing structures crushed more than three thousand souls living or working within the kill zone between the shore and West Avenue.
   The blast released an enormous amount of heat into the atmosphere, reaching almost fifteen calories per cubic inch as it spread out in a circle from the blast site, igniting the shoreline of Newport News. Triggering fires and incinerating anyone who may have survived the initial airburst by the water, the heat wave dropped to five calories per cubic inch by West Avenue, inflicting third-degree burns on exposed skin.
   At the same time, a radiation plume of five hundred rems rushed across Hampton Roads, contaminating the shoreline, finally falling to safe levels by the edge of Christopher Newport Park, near the collapsing apartment complexes.
   To the west, the shockwave collided againstBush’s starboard at a pressure of eleven psi, pushing the carrier over almost six degrees to port while shattering all starboard-facing windows on the island superstructure. The deafening airburst swept across the largely empty flight deck; the aircraft from Carrier Air Wing 7 were at nearby NAS Oceana, their home whenBush was not deployed.
   Radioactive debris, mixed with hundreds of thousands of gallons of seawater and sediment, surged skyward in a column of boiling gases and superhot particles. It reached a height of almost fifteen thousand feet, where the atmosphere fought back, flattening the shaft into the familiar mushroom cloud.
   Luckily, the prevailing winds aloft carried the fallout over Chesapeake Bay and into the Atlantic Ocean, sparing the surrounding communities from a shower of radioactive debris.* * *
   Ibarra blinked as the horizon pulsated with white light before a deep rumble echoed across the bay, followed by the distant rising column of radioactive debris. Even from ten miles away, the blast was ominous.
   “Dios mío,” mumbled Mario Mendoza, crossing himself.
   Although Ibarra, as well as the rest of his crew, had known the nature of the mission and carried it out as ordered, the reality of having set off a nuclear device in a populated area had a sobering effect on all of them.
   The Basque sailor had faced many challenges in his life, some at the hand of nature, like North Atlantic gales, and others at the hand of men, when he’d had to kill or be killed.
   But this… this was… apocalyptic, surreal, like if the devil himself had reached from the lowest level of hell and pushed his fiery fist into the night sky over Newport News.
   As he stared at the distant mushroom cloud pulsating with yellow and red atop the boiling stem, Javier Ibarra had the strange feeling that no amount of money would be enough to escape the manhunt that was sure to follow this Armageddon of his own creation.
   And it was at this moment, as a light and warm breeze swept across Chesapeake Bay and into the Atlantic Ocean, that he realized that life as he knew it would never be the same again.THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   They sat in silence in the Situation Room staring at the high-definition images on the large TV screens as emergency crews from multiple counties descended onto Newport News, the sight reminiscent of theTruman incident a week before. Body bags once more lined the piers and also streets, as an army of rescue crews dug through the rubble of several flattened city blocks.
   President Cord Macklin contemplated the ghostly feed with growing anger. Although the result of the blast could have been far worse had that boat been allowed to get closer to shore and toBush, the scenes were nonetheless the stuff of nightmares.
   And on top of dealing with this unprecedented disaster on the home front— and on his watch — the president also had to face the repercussions of this attack abroad. The latest damage report fromBush indicated that the carrier would not be heading out to sea in the foreseeable future.
   Macklin had already made the single phone call that activated the massive government machine to provide every possible support to the navy town. Multiple local, state, and federal emergency response agencies under the coordination of the Department of Homeland Security had taken over warehouses just beyond the blast zone to set up a headquarters to deal with the disaster. Although radiation fallout had been contained over the water, crews still wore hazmat suits as a precaution. Working thirty-minute shifts inside the kill zone below 6th Street, they searched for survivors while helicopters flew nonstop carrying victims to hospitals in a five-state area.
   It was a disaster on a scale unseen in America, but it was still only a small fraction of the damage that would have occurred had that Coast Guard Defender boat not stopped the rogue Boston Whaler when it did.
   “And we now have a connection,” Hartwell Prost said, referring to the intelligence extracted from Prince Omar Al Saud by a CIA team operating out of a black ops site in Poland, where Cmdr. Jake Russo’s team had delivered the HVT after a brief stopover in Germany.
   Macklin frowned. His first reaction after hearing the intel had been to get on the horn with President Xi Jiechi and confront him with the secret arrangement between the Saudi prince and General Deng Xiangsui. But Prost had talked him out of it, arguing that it was more valuable that the general didn’t know he had been made — for a time. Meanwhile, Prost was working with Secretary of State Brad Austin to go after the prince’s assets, as well as his supporters in Saudi Arabia, which included members of the royal family.
   “We do have a connection indeed, Hart,” the president said. “And now it’s our turn at the bat.”ROYAL EMBASSY OF SAUDI ARABIA, WASHINGTON, DC
   Brad Austin stepped out of the rear of the sedan in front of 601 New Hampshire Avenue, in the heart of Foggy Bottom.
   Massive and opulent, the seven-story building occupied almost an entire city block in one of the most expensive real-estate enclaves in the nation. Designed to project the wealth and power of the oil-rich nation, its lobby was nothing short of stunning, with massive crystal chandeliers casting a soft glow on shiny marble floors, exquisite wood paneling, and expensive furnishings.
   Austin walked straight to the aide waiting for him, next to the private elevator flanked by security guards in white uniforms, each holding an MP-5 submachine gun. They went up to the top floor, where he was received by Ambassador Adel al-Faisal, dressed in a traditional white cottonthawb. He complemented the ankle-length Arab tunic with a matchingghutrah headdress secured with a black goat’s-hairagal. The plump man, who had almost walked out of the United Nations assembly a few days before during Austin’s speech, did not smile as he extended a hand toward a pair of chairs across from his desk.
   “Don’t need to sit down, Mr. Ambassador,” Austin said. “But you might need to.”
   Al-Faisal blinked at that before asking,“What is the purpose of your visit? Your office said it was urgent.”
   “It’s about your missing prince.”
   Al-Faisal ran a finger over his thin mustache, his stare narrowing.“Prince Omar?”
   Austin nodded.
   The ambassador became visibly agitated.“Do you know who took him?”
   Another nod.
   “Was it the Mossad? The Shiites? Is there a ransom? I demand to know!”
   “Actually, there is a ransom, but quite steep,” he said before producing his phone.
   “What are you talking about? Prince Omar is eleventh in line for the throne. His well-being is a matter of national security. My government will do anything to get him back safely.”
   “Then take a look at this.… Though again, I suggest you sit down first.”
   The ambassador stared at him a moment before slowly sitting in one of the chairs.
   Austin pulled up the video he had received from Prost just hours before and pressed play before passing it to the Saudi, who spent the next two minutes spellbound, listening to Al Saud’s confession.
   “You see, Mr. Ambassador, since Prince Omar is, as you indicated, in line for the throne, that makes your government directly responsible for a nuclear attack against the United States, not to mention the deaths of over six thousand citizens, and thousands more wounded. And there’s the damage to three aircraft carriers, the destruction of one of our new subs, and the nightmare in Newport News.”
   “This… this is…”
   “My president sent me here today to ask what is your government prepared to do to make amends?”
   “Amends?”
   “You don’t expect us to just forget this.”
   The Saudi stared back.“Is this… a threat?”
   “You have twenty-four hours to respond. If we are not satisfied with your answer, we will be forced to… respond… in kind.”
   The ambassador tried to stand his ground.“The world will never stand for that. Saudi Arabia will not be—”
   “Mr. Ambassador, nobody likes Saudi Arabia except for Saudi Arabia. Right now, the world is in shock that a nuclear weapon was used against the United States. Once it becomes public that your government was responsible, no one will get in our way. But don’t worry… we’ll be sure to spare theoil fields and the refineries, for our own use.”
   Al-Faisal’s face turned red with anger.
   “Twenty-four hours, Mr. Ambassador,” Austin said. As he turned to leave, he tapped his watch and said, “Tick tock.”
   — 29 —ZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   The hastily called evening meeting of the Chinese Communist Party leadership caught some of the members off guard. The message behind the destruction of the Guangdong missile site had not been lost on President Xi Jiechi and the senior leadership of the party.
   And the day before, the navy’s new Type 096 ballistic missile submarine, operating in the Luzon Strait, had failed to report. A search had been launched and enough floating debris spotted that it has almost certainly sunk. An accident, perhaps, or an intentional act by the United States?
   Now the nuclear attack on Newport News had raised the stakes dramatically. One simple miscalculation on either side could prove disastrous.
   It had been decades since the Chinese leadership had been so divided and debate so acrimonious. The majority of senior military officers, led by General Deng Xiangsui, argued that now was the perfect time to take advantage of the US Navy’s loss of multiple aircraft carriers. The officers wanted to exploit the American navy’s weakened forward-deployed forces in the Pacific Fleet, including the reports thatVinson had been damaged— as well as USSBush at Naval Station Norfolk— and finally reunite Taiwan with the mainland.
   President Jiechi insisted on looking at history, primarily the aftermath of Japan’s sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. In an all-out war with China, he argued, the Americans might suffer tremendous losses. However, the Chinese survivors would be left a country in smoking ruin.
   The harsh arguments continued, with both sides refusing to alter course. The military argued that now was the time to strike, while the US forces were weak and the American people in shock.
   “Besides, Mr. President,” Admiral Deng Xiangsui vehemently pointed out, “the American people aren’t like the Americans from the World War Two generation. They aren’t going to band together to join the ranks of the military, buy war bonds, or suffer any kind of rationing.”
   Frowning, Deng looked directly at his mild-mannered protégé and paused for a moment. “The risk-averse politicians in Washington, and the vast majority of the self-indulgent American citizens, don’t have the backbone to even consider a military confrontation of such proportions. Now is the time for us to strike a crippling blow to their forces and fully reunify China! Let us finally end our pretense regarding Hong Kong and Taiwan and use our strength to pull them back fully under our control.”
   Deng stared at the president and the most powerful civilian leaders in the group.“Now is the time to test the American leadership. This unexpected gift, this incredible window of opportunity, will not stay open indefinitely.”
   Glancing at President Jiechi, Deng raised his voice.“One thing is certain, absolutely certain,” he thundered. “Those who are indecisive and vacillate will be looked upon as squanderers of China’s future as the world’s most powerful country!”
   After a few moments of silence, President Jiechi slowly rose to speak.
   “General, your passion is appreciated and your bravery without dispute. I have no doubt you would gladly lead our forces into battle with the Americans and emerge victorious. But at what cost? You say the American people are weak and cowardly. And this may be true. But they are also wealthy, and China has benefited greatly from that wealth.
   “However, the average American has no love of China. In fact, there is much hatred of China. Crowds chant and riot about jobs that have left America and reappeared in factories here. I have no doubt that many Americans would be pleased at the thought of missiles destroying large swaths of China’s industrial capacity, as well as welcome the inevitable buildup of US manufacturing capacity in response.
   “So, no, General, they will not lie down. They will rise up, as will the Japanese and the South Koreans and the Australians and the British, and even India, Germany, and Canada — and, of course, Taiwan, with its three hundred thousand trained soldiers and over four hundred advanced fighter jets, including the F-16A Falcon outfitted with the latest weaponry.
   “This is not a war we can risk. Nor is it a war the Americans can risk, but I suspect they feel the losses they would incur would not be as significant. We do not have a fleet poised off the west coast of the United States. And to use our nuclear missiles would be to ensure not just our own destruction, but that of the world.
   “In addition,” Jiechi added, signaling to an aide, who brought up a series of satellite images onto a large projection screen. “I have received evidence that the two Sukhois that were shot down had not been flying inside our airspace, as previously reported. They were on a direct attack vector over international waters toward the American fleet, a fleet that had already suffered losses from a ghost submarine. Only a fool would think the Americans would tolerate our planes flying over them. Only a fool would think the Americans would risk another attack from any direction.
   “The Americans simply defended themselves. Moreover, the American jet we shot down wasn’t invading our airspace. It was flying over international waters. So, it was wewho erred here. We were the ones to actfoolishly.”
   Jiechi could see the blood rising in Deng’s face.
   Jiechi continued.“Now is not the time to escalate, to continue this foolishness. Now is the time to besmart. It is the time to defuse this situation before it gets out of hand. We must offer the United States our full assistance following this abhorrent attack on their soil. We mustreassure them thatwe are not their enemy.”
   “How did you obtain this?” General Xiangsui demanded, rage in his voice.
   “My… own intelligence sources. There are too many satellites today to be able to hide something like this, General,” Jiechi replied calmly as the six PSC members present pointed at the images. His accusation against the general did not go unnoticed.* * *
   Deng ignored everyone but Jiechi, staring at the president, holding his eyes and struggling to maintain his composure. In truth, Jiechi’s speech had impressed him, showing more backbone than he’d ever seen before in his protégé. And this intelligence surprised him, but Deng would not telegraph his surprise, nor be cowed by the new president’s sudden courage, or his attempt to go gather his own intelligence. Deng planned todemonstrate how fainthearted the American politicians — and the American people — really were.
   “I will have my people review these images,” Deng said. “And make sure they are not… fabricated. Then we can continue this discussion.”
   The general stood and looked around the room at the civilian leaders, none of whom made eye contact with him except Jiechi. Then he turned on his heel and left the room, followed quickly by the rest of the military officers in the room.FUZHOU AIR BASE, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   Col. Lian Guõ could feel the tension between her shoulders and neck as she taxied the Xian H-6 strategic bomber — the Chinese version of the Russian Tupolev Tu-16 “Badger” long-range bomber — toward the end of the runway.
   The top-secret mission seemed too risky even to the maverick pilot, but she would never disagree with General Xiangsui’s direct order. Herjiujiu had personally requested that she lead the sortie. A copilot and an electronics officer accompanied her on this covert flight. The latter would manage weapons and defense systems. Normally, a communications officer would also be on board, but given the secrecy, Lian had decided to handle that task and lean more on her copilot for flight management.
   It had been at least two months since she had last flown the twin-engine bomber, during“refresher” training intended to keep Chinese pilots qualified in multiple types of aircraft.
   With permission from the control tower, Lian crossed the runway threshold and aligned the nose with the centerline. Advancing the twin throttles, she took off at precisely four o’clock in the morning.
   Once airborne, she contacted departure control with her call sign: China Southern Airlines Flight 463.
   A Leung-2 reconnaissance satellite provided timely updates on the position of their target as Lian leveled the bomber at a cruising altitude of thirty-one thousand feet and speed of 450 miles per hour, appropriate to the Boeing 737–700 passenger plane that normally used that call sign.
   As soon as they left Fuzhou airspace, Lian shut off all external lights.TAIWAN STRAIT
   “I guess boring is good,” Lt. Cmdr. Juan Ricardo mumbled under his oxygen mask as they started the final racetrack of their BARCAP this turbulent predawn morning.
   “Boring is always good,” replied Lt. Amanda Diamante from Dragon Two-Zero-Four, which had been speedily repaired by Master Chief Gino Cardona’s team, though not without receiving her fair share of “bend-over time” from Commander Benjamin Kowalski. Besides the damaged fuel line that had caused the engine to flame out, the rest of the damage to her Super Hornet had been cosmetic, just more character-building scars, easily patched.
   In fifteen minutes, two relief F/A-18Es from the“Bounty Hunters” (VFA-2) would be launched to relieve the Dragons, and then Ricardo could look forward to a steaming cappuccino.
   The darkness concealed a thick layer of clouds obscuring the stars and the moon. But even in spite of the poor weather conditions and the added difficulty of flying a tight formation in it, Ricardo felt at ease.
   He keyed his radio.“Dragon Two, how’s the fuel?”
   “Lookin’ good. No problems,” Amanda answered in a tired voice.“How about you?”
   “I’m fat,” Ricardo replied as he moved his head back and forth to relieve the muscles in his neck and shoulders. “Looking forward to sleeping in for a change.”
   “Yeah,” Amanda said.“This nightshift business sucks.”
   “Dragon One, Liberty Bell.”
   Ricardo recognized the voice of Lt. Cmdr. Steve Barlow, the CICO aboard an E-2D Advanced Hawkeye.
   Ricardo sensed trouble.“Dragon One, go.”
   “We have a situation,” Barlow said in a tight voice.“I have a single bogie thirty miles out at your seven for three-one-zero. The aircraft is using the call sign China Southern Air Four-Six-Three. I just checked, and that’s a flight number that normally is a Shanghai-to-Hong Kong shuttle. But the departure time doesn’t line up, and they’re several miles off course. When I inquired, the pilot said she was a check airman and they’re breaking in a new crew on the route.”
   “And I sense you don’t buy it?” Ricardo asked, glancing back at Amanda’s jet remaining just behind his starboard wingtip.
   “Nope,” Barlow replied.“I mean, who the hell lets a trainee get seven miles off course, especially when every airline in this hemisphere knows we’re out here?”
   “Good point, my friend,” Ricardo replied. “We’ll check it out.”
   “Roger that,” Barlow said.“Dragon, your unknown is heading three-four-zero at three-one-zero. Now twenty-eight miles away.”
   “Three-forty and up to thirty-one thousand,” Ricardo replied as he began a shallow turn to a heading of 340 degrees and a climb to Flight Level 310, or thirty-one thousand feet. “You catch that, Deedle?”
   “Roger, moving in a little tighter.”
   “Comin’ up on the power,” Ricardo signaled, easing the nose up a tad.”
   “I’m with you,” Amanda replied.* * *
   Col. Lian Guõ was concerned. The person who had inquired about the call sign had spoken English on the radio frequency for the Chinese air traffic control sector.
   Fortunately, she spoke it well enough, certainly as well as any CSA pilot. Unfortunately, she could tell the voice did not believe her, and a moment later, she noticed on her radar screen that the two American jets flying BARCAP twenty-eight miles away were turning toward her.
   Showtime, she thought before telling her crew,“Prepare for battle.” The H-6 carried four C-301 supersonic anti-ship missiles in its large payload compartment.
   Breathing deeply, she pushed the throttles to the forward stops and dropped the nose as she turned straight forVinson, seventy miles away.* * *
   Vectored by the Advanced Hawkeye, Ricardo and Amanda were twenty-five miles from the mystery jet when it suddenly accelerated to almost the speed of sound and entered a diving turn towardVinson.
   “Whoa, Liberty! Seeing this shit?” Ricardo said. “It can’t be a jetliner.”
   “Copy that, Dragon One,” Barlow said.“It’ll reach mother in six minutes. We just tried contacting it again, and there is no reply, so I’m calling it a bandit. Do you have a visual?”
   “Negative. We’re in the clouds, and it’s darker up here than nine feet up a bull’s ass. Arming weapons,” he said, going into burner, followed by Amanda.
   “Copy that, Dragon One.”
   “Deedle, master arm,” Ricardo said, throwing the switch to arm his weapons systems.
   “Roger,” Amanda replied.
   “Liberty Bell, Dragon One has a lock on the bandit,” Ricardo said when achieving infrared lock with a Sidewinder. “Permission to fire.”
   “Permission granted, Dragon One,” Barlow replied.“Splash the bandit.”
   Ricardo released the missile from a distance of seventeen miles, watching it flash under his starboard wing before disappearing in the dark clouds.* * *
   Lian’s crew had just opened the H-6’s bomb bay doors in preparation to release the C-301s when alarms blared and her electronics officer screamed.
   “Missile! Incoming missile! Impact in thirty seconds!” he warned over the intercom.
   “Countermeasures,” Lian replied.Dammit.
   Her electronics officer released a load of flares from the pods on the tail as Lian cut hard right toward the coast to try to place themselves at a ninety-degree angle from the incoming threat.
   The missile closed in on them before abruptly turning toward the red-hot cloud of flares. Unfortunately, this being a subsonic jet, it had not provided her with the speed required to achieve enough separation, and it detonated somewhere off to the bomber’s starboard.
   The blast blinded her as shrapnel tore into the right side of the H-6 bomber. Alarms blared inside the cockpit.
   “Damage report!” she demanded, wrestling for control of the Xian. Her ears hurt from the rapid loss of cabin pressure, and the control column vibrated in her hands.
   “We’ve lost pressurization!” her copilot announced. “The fuselage is breached!”
   A scan of her instruments conveyed her predicament. The sturdy Badger was designed to take quite a bit of abuse, but the blast had pierced the fuselage somewhere aft of the right wing.
   “Release the missiles!” she ordered. Even though they were not pointing toward the carrier, the C-301s would turn toward their preordained target.
   “Weapons system nonresponsive,” the electronics officer replied.
   Lian glanced at the array of warning lights between them and saw the red and yellow ones belonging to the system governing their payload.
   Cursing under her breath, she pushed the center stick forward and dove below the clouds, back toward the Chinese mainland at just under the speed of sound. She tried to close the payload bay doors to minimize the vibration on the flight controls, but the hydraulics were not responding.
   Sorry, Jiujiu, she thought.We tried.
   And that’s when she spotted the Super Hornets approaching from her starboard side.* * *
   “Definitely not an airliner,” Ricardo said as he came up behind and under what he now recognized as a Xian H-6 bomber, and it had its payload bay doors open. Beyond them, he spotted the long shapes of at least four long missiles.
   No, you don’t, he thought, easing his throttles back to give himself some room to use his M61A2 Vulcan 20 mm cannon. Squeezing the trigger for just three seconds, he unloaded almost two hundred armor-piercing incendiary rounds, tearing through the starboard fuselage and the starboard wing.
   The dark night blazed with light when the Badger’s right wing exploded in a blinding flash before breaking off the large bomber.
   Ricardo flew through the expanding cloud of flaming debris, breaking away as caution lights came alive in his cockpit.* * *
   The h-6 spun toward the strait in flames.
   Lian watched the ocean rushing toward her but could not move. The rounds that had pierced the cockpit, killing her copilot and electronics officer, had also penetrated her seat from behind, severing her spinal cord.
   As the altimeter shot below ten thousand feet, she tried to move her arms to reach between her legs for the dual red handles of her K-36LM ejection seat, but they would not obey her.
   Damn you, she thought as the image of General Xiangsui flashed in her mind, along with Hai’s corkboard memorial, before the fire engulfed her.* * *
   Amanda watched the bomber explode in midair, a massive cloud of flaming shrapnel raining over the strait like a Fourth of July fireworks display.
   “Deedle, when you’re through watching the show, I need you to rendezvous with me and check the jet, see if I have any missing parts. Controls are getting a little nonresponsive.”
   “Copy,” she replied, easing under Ricardo’s jet and carefully checking the aircraft fuselage and wings.
   “Don’t see anything major, Ricky. You do have some hydraulic fluid leaking, but all the important parts are still attached.
   “Okay,” Ricardo responded as they closed in on the carrier.“I’m going to dirty up and see if everything works.”
   “Roger that,” Amanda acknowledged, watching for anything unusual as the wing flaps, landing gear, and tail hook dropped into place. “Looks good to me; nothing fell off.”
   “Deedle, you take the lead and land first. I’ll extend downwind.”
   “That’s a negative,” Amanda replied as she settled her Super Hornet wingtip-to-wingtip with Ricardo. “My turn to hold your hand.”
   “Don’t be a hero, Deedle. Get your Rhino on that flight deck.”
   “I’m not leaving my wingman. Switching to the LSO,” Amanda replied as the carrier’s wake appeared fifteen hundred feet below them.* * *
   “We’ll talk about this later,” Ricardo replied while Amanda drifted five hundred feet off his port wing. Switching to the LSO frequency, he said, “Hornet, ball, losing hydraulics, controls a little sticky.”
   “Roger ball,” the LSO replied.“Easy does it, Dragon. Fly a long downwind leg while we rig the barricade.”
   Ricardo clicked his mic twice, slowing down the Super Hornet while flying over the carrier before making a 180 turn and coming back on the requested downwind leg. By the time he flew abeam the carrier stern, he could see the barricade already raised.
   The moment he aligned the nose with the carrier’s stern, the LSO said,“Level your wings.”
   Slowly Ricardo inched the power setting and centered the stick.
   “Nice,” the LSO said.“Just give me a little more power.”
   Working the stick and throttles, Ricardo shifted the nose to place it along the centerline of the angled deck.
   “More power, Dragon. Get that nose up.”
   Inching the throttles again, Ricardo kept his eyes on the deck, but the meatball kept climbing on the Fresnel lens, indicating that he was dropping below the required flightpath.
   “Power!” the LSO radioed as the jet flew over the stern.
   Ricardo shoved the throttles to the forward stops just as the jet slammed onto the deck.
   The hook caught the number two wire, which brought the aircraft to a sudden stop well before the barricade, and a couple of seconds later Ricardo idled the engines.
   He closed his eyes and inhaled deeply, trying to get his breathing— and his heartbeat — to settle down. When he finally opened them, he saw Cmdr. Benjamin Kowalski and Lt. Cmdr. Ed Stone, clipboard in hand, standing stoically at the edge of the flight deck.
   Then, slowly, Kowalski stretched the index finger of his right hand at Ricardo, and pointed his thumb at the open bulkhead behind him, before disappearing through it with the safety officer in tow.* * *
   Fifteen minutes later, Ricardo stood at attention next to Amanda in the ready room as Kowalski slowly sipped an espresso and regarded the two sweat-soaked aviators who stood before him, still in their flight gear. Lt. Cmdr. Vince Nova stood behind him, already deep into making notes on his damn clipboard. And on top of that, the air boss, Capt. James Buchelle, sat at a corner table watching the show while also enjoying a cappuccino, his equally intimidating gaze focused on the two pilots. Next to him satVinson’s skipper, Capt. Peter Keegan, who kept his arms crossed and looked like he’d swallowed something that tasted very bitter.
   “Did you fire your guns on that bomber after it was headed back to China, Commander?” Kowalski asked.
   “Sir,” Ricardo began, “that bomber—”
   “See, Vince?” Kowalski interrupted, glancing over at Nova. “I just can’t get a straight answer anymore.”
   “What’s the world coming to?” Nova said, making another note.
   “It’s a yes-or-no answer, Mr. Ricardo,” Kowalski said.
   “Yes, sir.”
   “And were you fired upon?”
   “Negative, sir.”
   “Then why did you choose to break our rules of engagement?”
   “The bomber, sir, it had opened its payload doors and—”
   “And you fired in such proximity as to damage an airplane that’s the property of the United States Navy!”
   “Sir, I—”
   “And you,” Kowalski said, turning to Amanda. “Exactly which part of ‘take the lead and land first’ did you not understand?”
   “Sir, I… I wanted to—”
   “Were you not satisfied with crashing one Rhino and getting another one all shot up, Lieutenant?”
   “Sir, I—”
   “Did you learn nothing from Mullet’s death — from his failing to obey a direct order?”
   “I—“
   Getting right in her face, Kowalski asked in a loud voice,“Have you no respect for the tens of millions of taxpayer dollars provided by the hardworking citizens of our country and entrusted to you by the US Navy?”
   Amanda stammered,“I–I just—”
   “Do you think youown that Rhino, Miss Diamante?”
   “No, sir!”
   “That’s the first smart thing I’ve heard you say since you came under my command! That’s right, Lieutenant, the taxpayers do! So, when the taxpayers — as represented by your flight leader — tell you to land it, you damn well better LAND IT!”
   “Yes, sir!”
   Kowalski stepped back and calmly sipped more coffee, his eyes shifting between the two aviators.“What do you think, Vince?”
   Nova slowly nodded.“Definitely rebellious.”
   “Yep. Most definitely,” Kowalski agreed before turning to Buchelle and Keegan, who had remained quiet the entire time.
   The skipper ofVinson looked over at the air boss, who gave him a slight nod. Standing, Keegan finally said,“Brief them,” and he turned to leave, followed by Buchelle.
   Ricardo made a face.Brief us?
   But just before disappearing through the bulkhead, Buchelle looked over his shoulder, his tight face softening a bit.“But Dover, we’re not animals. Let them have a cup of coffee first. God knows they’ve earned it.”
   — 30 —USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), EIGHTY MILES SOUTH OF LUZON STRAIT
   Frank Kelly watched Marshon Chappelle tracking the cavitation from the twin screws of the 488-foot destroyerQingdao, which continued trailing the carrier strike group by six thousand yards.
   Vinson and its escorts had left the operating area southwest of Taiwan and sailed through the Luzon Strait to a position one hundred miles northwest of Laoag City, Philippines.
   In doing so, the US warships had taken themselves out of the footprint of China’s Leung-2 reconnaissance satellites positioned over the Taiwan Strait. Twenty minutes before, the American vessels had slowed to a crawl while Kelly received his confirmation orders from the White House via Commander, US Pacific Command, to Commander, US Pacific Fleet, and finally Admiral Jack Swift.
   Kelly said,“Sonar, Conn. Range and bearing.”
   “Conn, sonar,” Chappelle replied. “Six thousand yards. Three-two-zero.”
   “You sure Beijing isn’t watching?” Giannotti asked.
   Kelly shrugged. The latest intel from the Pentagon and reports from an airborne E-2D Advanced Hawkeye had convinced the commander of the Mighty Mo that no Chinese satellites or reconnaissance aircraft were tracking the flotilla this far out.
   “But if they are,” he finally said, “screw ’em.”
   “Range five thousand six hundred yards,” Chappelle reported. “Bearing three-five-zero.”
   “Fire one,” Kelly said, counting to five before adding, “fire two… fire three… fire four.”
   Giannotti blinked before repeating the order. Then, leaning over, he whispered,“Jesus, boss. Two would have done it.”
   Kelly ignored him, and a moment later, the Virginia-class attack submarine fired four MK 48 ADCAP torpedoes in sequence from its bow tubes.
   “Conn, Sonar,” Chappelle reported. “The destroyer is turning to port and releasing countermeasures.”
   Kelly nodded. It wouldn’t matter.Missouri carried the Mod 7 CBASS (Common Broadband Advanced Sonar System) version of the MK 48 ADCAP, meaning it had improved resistance to countermeasures and a new propulsion system.
   The quartet of powerful explosions happened in sequence. Four 650 pounds of high explosives engulfed the destroyer’s starboard from amidships to its stern.
   A moment later the vibrations from the shockwave reachedMissouri’s hull as the Chinese ship broke up in three sections and vanished in less than a minute, along with its 260 sailors.
   “Not much time to launch lifeboats,” Giannotti observed.
   Kelly fought his emotions. For the past two days, the US Navy had ordered him to slaughter Chinese military personnel without any regard to the rules of engagement he had grown up on. The conflict between his sense of morality and his Oath of Enlistment was tearing him apart. But he knew better than to let an ounce of any sentiment show externally.“My orders were clear, Bobby. No witnesses and no time to send out a distress signal. You have the conn.”
   Kelly returned to his cabin and his daughters. Over the next thirty minutes, the strike group gained speed and made a wide sweeping turn to steam over what little debris remained on the surface of the water, dispersing it. Then slowly, they turned back to their operating area west of Taiwan.ZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   “The plane was on a reconnaissance mission,” insisted General Deng Xiangsui, standing at the end of the conference table briefing President Xi Jiechi and the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party, which included five members of the Politburo Standing Committee. One of his colonels worked a computer keyboard linked to the large projection screen next to him. “I personally dispatched it to search for our missing Type 096 ballistic submarine.”
   “But, General,” Jiechi said. “What about satellite surveillance?”
   “It only covers the strait. The last reported coordinates placed her south of the Luzon Strait, just beyond range. This is why I sent the H-6.”
   “Which,” Jiechi said, “the Americans claimed was armed with missiles and attempting to fire on theVinson.”
   “Nonsense,” Deng said, shaking his head before nodding to his colonel. A moment later, the screen depicted a real-time satellite video of the carrier force in the strait. “If I had wantedVinson destroyed… it would be on fire by now, or sunk. The Americans, once again, lie to us, fabricating evidence. But we can’t prove it because they destroyed the H-6, just as I know they sunk our submarine. And now theQingdao has failed to report. What do you think happened to it?”
   The PSC members began their whispering.
   “And on top of that,” Deng continued, “the Americans have brought their F-35 stealth fighters to our doorstep. Our intelligence indicates there are over forty of them in Okinawa. But we can defeat them if we act now.”
   President Jiechi looked confused.“How do we contend with something that can down our planes from a great altitude and distance, and which we can’t even see on our radars?”
   Deng knew the Chinese pilots were poorly trained and no match for the Lightning flyers, but he refused to back down from fighting the good fight. He never had before and he wasn’t about to start now.
   Every time you walk away from the trials of life because of the fear of failure, a part of you dies.
   Remembering the words of his father, the general glared at the civilian leaders.“We can overwhelm the Americans with superior numbers, firepower, and tactics,” Deng blustered in his booming voice. “Remember that the American strategy relies on midair refueling of their fighters, and that includes the F-35s out of Kadena. While we may not be able to see their stealth fighters, we can see those large and slow tankers. Take them out and leave the fighters stranded. Remember, we have the home-field advantage.”
   Deng leaned back and stared at President Jiechi to let his message sink in, leaving out the fact that fighter jets closely guarded the tankers to prevent precisely that scenario.
   “The White House doesn’t want to lose any of those extremely expensive fighter planes,” the general added. “If they’re outnumbered, or lose more than a few Lightnings, the Americans will turn tail and immediately retreat to their base in Okinawa.”
   President Jiechi and the committee members huddled in whispery discussions for several minutes. Finally, the president sighed with a grim set to his jaw. He spoke in soft, measured words.“General Xiangsui, it is our collective opinion that we should not provoke the Americans at this time. Tensions are too high. We can’t afford to lose any more of our forces.”
   “You’re making a great mistake,” the general said with disgust. “You have the capability to chart your own destiny, the future of China, and you choose not to act with overwhelming strength in our own waters. You are cowards.”
   With that, he stormed out of the room.NEWPORT NEWS, VIRGINIA
   “But, sir, we’re breaking protocol!” Keith Okimoto protested as President Cord Macklin stepped off Marine One near the edge of the kill zone. “We always send a team ahead of your visits to scout the—”
   “C’mon, Oki,” he said. “Do you really think someone’s gonna get me here? I mean, look at this place.”
   Macklin himself looked around, taking it all in. He had come to gain perspective. He had come to show how much he cared. And he also had come to feel the heat and smell the air, validating his decision to launch an unprecedented strike across China and Saudi Arabia, neither of which had responded to his multiple threats.
   But above all, Macklin had to come to speak directly to the army of volunteers arriving from all over the nation to search for survivors.
   He stepped up to the makeshift podium erected on a mound of rubble while Okimoto and his team formed a defensive perimeter. Flanked by the mayor of Newport News, the commander of Naval Station Norfolk, and the governor of Virginia, Macklin began to address the crowd gathered north of the smoldering shoreline.USS CARL VINSON (CVN 70), TAIWAN STRAIT
   As Lt. Amanda Diamante sat in her brand-new F-35C, Dragon Two-One-Four, the carrier version of the Air Force F-35A Lightning, two words came to mind:badass motherfucker.
   The advanced jet’s use of the latest radar absorbent materials, plus its revolutionary infrared and visual signature reduction technology, made it virtually undetectable by radar stations.
   She grinned under her oxygen mask, waiting behind the raised jet blast deflector as the nose wheel of Lt. Cmdr. Juan Ricardo’s Lightning was secured to the catapult shuttle. He was at the controls of the second stealth fighter, Dragon One-Zero-Eight.
   “All set, Deedle?”
   “Yup. Living the dream,” she replied, reviewing the information displayed in the full-panel-width glass cockpit touchscreen integrated with her helmet-mounted display system. The Lightning truly made the Super Hornet’s cockpit look dated.
   Placing her right index and thumb on the sidestick controller, she tilted it in each direction and verified that the corresponding control surfaces obeyed the fly-by-wire system.
   The word out was that tonight the United States of America would settle all military business with the People’s Republic of China, after the White House had received undeniable evidence that Beijing had been behind the carrier strikes, including the nuclear attack on Newport News.
   Bastards, she thought as she scanned everything one more time, just as Ricardo advanced the throttle to the military setting and turned on external lights, signaling readiness. A few seconds later, the stealth fighter shot off Cat I over a river of hissing steam and in burner.
   As the jet took off like a rocket, Amanda waited in Cat II for the signal to increase power.
   Here we go, she thought as she also pushed the left-hand throttle to the military setting and flipped on her lights.
   The catapult yanked her hard as Amanda staged the blower of her Pratt& Whitney F135 turbofan, as the flight deck rushed by at a dizzying speed.
   She volleyed off twenty seconds behind Ricardo, ignoring the darkness beyond the canopy by keeping her eyes on the wide glass panels. Achieving a positive rate of climb, she reduced power back to military setting and worked the sidestick control, following the departure route to meet up with Ricardo.
   The Dragons continued on a northeasterly heading over the South China Sea at Mach 1.2 until reaching a KC-135 Stratotanker circling eighty miles west of Fuzhou.
   The midnight sky was unusually dark, with only a hint of moonlight on the horizon as the stealth Dragons topped off their tanks before turning north. Ricardo and Amanda turned off their planes’ exterior lights as they set course for their target.
   Amanda got her mind in the game, constantly scanning her instruments and being sure to hold a tight formation.
   In her briefing, after getting over the excitement of learning she would be flying a mission in the Lightning, Amanda learned that they would be hitting the colossal Three Gorges Dam. The hydroelectric facility spanning the Yangtze River was the world’s largest power station at more than 22,500 megawatts. By comparison, the largest power plant in the US, Palo Verde in western Arizona, peaked at 3,900 megawatts with all three reactors operational.
   Complete radio silence was paramount to their stealth mission, so Amanda had her radio muted and her AN/APG-81 active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar off, making her invisible to China’s coastal defenses.
   She checked her watch. One minute to showtime.
   Don’t let us down, flyboys.
   If everything went according to the plan reviewed during the briefing, the same scene was supposed to be playing out at other power-generating stations across the country by the fleet of US Air Force F-35A Lightnings out of Kadena AB, Okinawa. The strike package included Baihetan Dam, the country’s second largest at 16,000 megawatts, and Xiluodu Dam at 13,060 megawatts. In all, close to forty stealth fighters entered Chinese airspace completely undetected and in full synchronization. And in the Middle East, two more F-35Cs from USSAbraham Lincoln were performing a similar run over the power-generation stations in Saudi Arabia.
   Ricardo and Amanda approached Three Gorges at two thousand feet, holding their speed at six hundred knots, before releasing two BLU-114/B submunitions.
   The weapons contained bomblets of chemically treated carbon-fiber filaments, each only a few hundredths of an inch thick and able to float in the air like a dense cloud. As the conductive haze descended over the hydroelectric facility, it engulfed transformers and other high-voltage equipment. In the minute that followed, hundreds of thousands of short circuits occurred as current flowed through the fibers, which vaporized on contact, leaving no evidence behind.
   As Ricardo and Amanda— as well as the rest of the Lightnings — turned back for their respective home bases, massive blackouts occurred across mainland China. From Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, and Tianjin to Beijing, Suzhou, Harbin, and Shanghai — and across dozens of military installations. In the span of sixty seconds, the People’s Republic of China had been blinded by an attack they could not detect.
   Well, that’s something you don’t see every day, Amanda thought as the countryside beneath her went completely dark, from large metropolis to small towns, giving the country a taste of what it would be like in the aftermath of a total power loss due to Armageddon. She couldn’t even contemplate the magnitude of the economic impact. The rolling blackouts that hit California in the summer of 2000 had an estimated cost of forty billion dollars — child’s play by comparison to this coast-to-coast shutdown.
   Still, in Amanda’s mind, it was a small price to pay for the attack on Newport News.
   But the World Famous Golden Dragons had an additional mission before returning toVinson: meet up with a KC-135, top off, and head straight to Yulin Naval Base.
   Once more fat with fuel, the pair of Lightnings shot off at Mach 1.4, covering the four hundred miles in twenty minutes before reducing speed and dropping completely undetected over the most fortified and heavily defended naval base in China. Spanning more than sixteen square miles of military infrastructure, the base accommodated China’s emerging fleet of Shang-class Type 095 attack submarines and Jin-class Type 094 ballistic missile submarines — all protected by a vast array of short- and long-range SAM batteries, as well as anti-ship cruise missiles. It also housed more than a hundred Shenyang J-11s, the Chinese equivalentof the Sukhoi Su-27, a fighter as capable as the F-15E Strike Eagle.
   Yet no one detected the Lightnings as they crossed right over the submarine fleet and the missile defense systems at five thousand feet, holding just four hundred knots, minimizing their acoustic signature.
   Once again, the F-35Cs released two more sets of carbon-fiber BLU-114/B submunitions right over the island’s power-generating station and radar installations. The dense clouds descended over electric transformers, distribution centers, and power substations, sparking an electrical chaos visible for thirty seconds as Ricardo and Amanda flew back over the South China Sea to rendezvous with a KC-135 forthe third and last time this night.ZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   General Deng Xiangsui found himself suddenly blinded. His military had gone dark, not to mention the power loss in multiple major cities.
   Fearing the worst, and in a moment of panic— and without consulting with President Jiechi — Deng used his encrypted satellite phone to place an emergency call.SUBMARINE TYPE 094, OUTSIDE YULIN NAVAL BASE, HAINAN ISLAND
   Captain Ching Shubei and his crew had trained endlessly for this moment. His country had gone completely dark and General Deng Xiangsui had just informed him directly that they were under attack by the Americans.
   The moment of truth had arrived for Shubei and his crew as they prepared to follow their commander’s orders…to shower the Carl Vinson Carrier Strike Group and every military installation in Taiwan with JL-2 ballistic missiles.
   Staring at his officers in the control room, the submarine captain gave the order.THIRTY MILES NORTH OF HAINAN ISLAND
   Amanda spotted a missile igniting as it surged above the surface, and the sight certainly warranted breaking radio silence.
   “Ricky, are you seeing this shit?”
   “Yep. JL-2 for sure. Big sucker. And it’s angled to the northeast.”
   “In the direction of the fleet.”
   “Liberty Bell, Liberty Bell,” Ricardo said.“Beware of a vampire heading your way! It’s a JL-2!”
   A moment later, Lt. Cmdr. Barlow replied from an E-2D Advanced Hawkeye circling south of the carrier group,“Dragons, we just detected it and are already tracking and preparing to intercept.”
   “Say, Ricky, we still have half our fuel plus the winders and the SDBs,” she said, referring to their two Sidewinder air-to-air missiles for self-defense and the twin GBU-39 small-diameter bombs for opportunity targets.
   “Worth a try, Deedle.”
   She powered up her AN/APG-81 radar and immediately started tracking it just as a second missile broke the water surface.“There’s another one!”
   “Take it out, Deedle!” Ricardo ordered before roaring away in burner.“I’m going after the first one!”
   “Copy that,” she replied as the Lightnings parted ways in the dark.
   Amanda also staged her blower as the second missile rumbled by while starting to gain altitude. Unlike the first missile, which they had spotted from almost twenty miles away, this time she had the advantage of being closer, catching it in its initial launch phase. And only now, as Amanda got within three miles of it as it rose through five hundred feet, did she fully appreciate its size, almost fifty feet tall.
   “But going nowhere,” she said, achieving lock on its superhot exhaust and firing an AIM-9X Block III Sidewinder from her starboard pod.
   The nine-foot-long missile shot away, reaching Mach 2.5 in seconds, quickly closing the gap before its infrared proximity fuse detonated its 20.8-pound WDU-17/B annular blast fragmentation warhead. The blast spread into a large circle that cut through the base of the ballistic missile.
   But as the JL-2 trembled in midair before exploding in an impressive fireball almost five hundred feet in diameter, Amanda spotted a third flash by the waterline just aft of her starboard wing.
   Seriously?
   “One down, Ricky,” she said. “But they just fired a third one!”* * *
   Ricardo heard Amanda, but he was too busy accelerating like a damn rocket after the first missile while his nose-mounted Electro-Optical Targeting System tracked the JL-2 soaring past twenty thousand feet at Mach 1.8.
   It’s getting away, he thought, firing a Sidewinder, which blazed skyward as its IR seeker tracked the superhot plume of the missile rising higher in the night sky.
   Reaching its maximum speed of Mach 2.5, the Sidewinder went nearly vertical as it followed its target, but it could not close the gap. The ballistic missile was already rocketing past Mach 3 above forty thousand feet.* * *
   “Can’t catch it, Deedle,” Amanda heard Ricardo say as she squirmed from the g-forces halfway through her turn to get a better angle on the third JL-2.
   The F-35C sensors tracked and targeted the missile climbing past three hundred feet at her ten o’clock two miles out. The system painted the information on her helmet-mounted display as it provided the seeker head of her second Sidewinder with sufficient information to launch.
   “Adios,” she whispered as it shot out of her port pylon, scrambling after the powerful heat source. In the time that she completed her turn and leveled her wings, the Sidewinder had sliced through the ballistic missile’s solid-fuel rocket booster. Reverberating over the water, another impressive fireball stained the ocean in hues of orange and yellow.
   “Two down and fresh out of winders,” she reported, coming back around and noticing the three radial ripples where the missiles had surfaced. They were in a line and spaced around three hundred feet.
   Checking her timer and doing some quick math— and assuming the sub had continued in a straight course — she took an educated guess at its current position. And if she remembered her Annapolis classes on submarine warfare, the average depth to shoot those ballistic missiles was around 120 feet — give or take.
   Pointing the nose of her Lightning at the suspected spot on the water, she armed her three Raytheon SDBs. The precision-guided bombs’ tri-mode seekers responded to radar, infrared homing, and semi-active laser guidance. Amanda selected the latter, staring at the target on the water and locking the laser.
   The SDBs dropped from her center rails and immediately deployed their“diamondback” type winglets, gliding beneath the F-35C for a second before dropping right over the painted spot on the water.
   As Amanda pulled up, the SDBs stabbed the surface at nearly three hundred feet per second. The 206-pound warheads, set to detonate by a cockpit-selectable delay function, went off twenty feet below the surface with a combined high-explosive charge equivalent to a pair of World War II MK9 depth charges.* * *
   Captain Shubei was about to give the order to fire the sub’s fourth missile, when the shock wave from twin blasts at a distance of one hundred feet tumbled the Type 094 submarine on its side, sending him crashing against a console.
   Lights flickered and screens turned to snow while sonar operators jerked back, yanking off their headphones. The hull trembled and sailors rolled inside the control room as the ship absorbed the acoustic energy piercing the depths. Resonating across its full length, it popped dozens of rivets like machine guns, shattering panels and consoles, injuring sailors, and sparking off bulkheads.
   Water began streaming from several places, short-circuiting systems as panels went dark. The submarine struggled to straighten itself.
   Shubei regained his footing under the crimson glow of emergency lanterns.“Take us down!” he finally shouted, holding the side of his bleeding face. “All ahead flank! Right full rudder! Set depth seven-zero-zero feet! And get those leaks under control!”
   As his crew went to work, Shubei tried very hard to hide his shock, wondering how in the world someone had managed to drop depth charges right on top of his vessel while operating well within the kill zone of the naval base’s batteries of surface-to-air missiles.* * *
   Amanda climbed towards Ricardo’s Lightning high up in the sky. But even higher, and barely visible in the upper atmosphere, she spotted the very faint plume of the first ballistic missile.USS LAKE CHAMPLAIN (CG 57), TAIWAN STRAIT
   Lt. Cmdr. Barbara Giannotti was the OOD on the Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser when the call came in from Liberty Bell.
   She immediately placed the ship on general quarters and said,“Get the captain on the bridge, pronto!”
   Champlain cruised a mile aft ofVinson, equipped with the general-purpose, multi-mission Aegis weapons system that integrated air, surface, anti-submarine warfare sensors and engagement systems. The globally deployed Aegis provided the first line of defense for the fleet and land-based targets.
   Standing behind the Aegis operators, Barbara tracked the JL-2 missile’s speed, altitude, and range as it arced through the stratosphere in a parabolic flight that left little room for speculation as to its intended target: the middle of the carrier group.
   “Commander, I have three MIRVs,” the Aegis operator reported the instant the JL-2 missile released its payload of three multiple independent reentry vehicles, each presumably carrying a nuclear warhead.
   “What’s happening, BG?” the captain asked, rushing inside the bridge, followed by two more officers.
   “Incoming MIRVs, sir,” Barbara replied, pointing to the complex Aegis system already locked on the incoming warheads, one aimed at the front of the carrier group, the second at the center, and the third at the rear.
   “Carry on,” the captain said.
   “Cut them loose,” she said, giving the order to fire three RIM-174A Standard Extended Range Active Missiles with a range of 250 nautical miles and a ceiling higher than 110,000 feet.
   Her heartbeat rocketing and her throat going dry, Barbara turned to see the first stage of the twenty-one-foot ERAMs ignite in a blaze that painted the surrounding night sky in shades of orange and white. The solid-propellant plumes splashed against the sleek outline of the guided-missile cruiser as they shot off from their respective Vertical Launching Tubes.
   Don’t fail me, babies, she thought as the ERAMs hurtled skyward toward their respective targets, which were starting their descent through the upper atmosphere, entering their terminal phase.
   Reaching a speed of Mach 3.5, the ERAMs became mere specks high in the southwestern skies before a bright flash indicated their second stages igniting, propelling them through their final interception courses.
   “Eight seconds to impact,” the Aegis operator reported as Barbara felt a pressure in her chest and realized she had been holding her breath.
   She exhaled slowly as three back-to-back flashes sparked high in the sky over the South China Sea, and a few seconds later, she heard their distant sonic booms, the sounds reminding her of Fourth of July reports.
   “Targets down,” the Aegis operator replied.
   As the bridge exploded in celebration, Barbara turned to her smiling CO and whispered,“Gotta hit the head, sir.” She barely had time to make it before she vomited.* * *
   The first signs of dawn graced the horizon with a pencil-thin line of lavender as Amanda approachedVinson’s stern.
   Using fingertip touch on the sidestick and minute power adjustments, she called the ball and followed the LSO’s commands to bring her Lightning onto the dark flight deck.
   Snagging the number two wire, she was thrown into her restraining harness. She felt damn lucky— and grateful — to have a carrier to come home to.
   But as she idled the engine and raised the canopy of the finest stealth fighter jet ever made, she spotted Cmdr. Kowalski and Capt. Buchelle standing next to Maintenance Master Chief Cardona— all glaring at her under the lights washing the island in a grayish glow.
   Now what?
   In unison, as the Lightning’s tailhook released the arresting wire, the navy men brought their right hands up, middle fingers grazing their temples.
   And in this night of nights, as the smell of jet fuel and burned rubber tingled her nostrils amid the controlled chaos reigning on the busy flight deck, Amanda proudly saluted back.
   — 31 —SOUTH CHINA SEA, FOUR HUNDRED MILES NORTHWEST OF YULIN NAVAL BASE
   He had hopped on his Citation X the moment he’d received word that the Americans had killed the JL-2 missiles and nearly sunk Capt. Shubei’s sub.
   Deng still had friends on the Politburo Standing Committee, but after tonight he worried about their loyalty. Of course, the story would have been different had he been successful. The PSC— along with Jiechi and his young politicians — would have had no choice but to go along with him or risk the embarrassment of appearing unable to control one general.
   So, he had traded Beijing for Hainan Island, vanishing in the confusion of the nation’s massive blackout. He headed to the place where he was king, supreme commander of the PLA — and where he had direct control of the Type 094 ballistic nuclear missile submarines in a naval base that was, by his own design, impregnable. He had trained and indoctrinated every senior officer on that base. And along with the subs, surface vessels, cruise missiles, land-based ballistic missiles, and the assorted jets and bombers — a combined 220 nuclear warheads — it gave him the leverage he would not have in Beijing.
   Sitting in the rear of the cabin, Deng stared at the distant waters of the Taiwan Strait at dawn, where long ago that Sidewinder missile had blown him out of the sky. He had fought honorably that day. The battle, though recorded as a failure by historians, had forged him, turning him into one of China’s most respected military leaders and—
   The Citation’s twin turbojets suddenly spooled down as the right wing tipped and the nose dropped.
   “What is happening?” he asked one of his half dozen bodyguards occupying the forward cabin.
   “Don’t know, sir,” he replied, rushing to the cockpit.
   Deng followed him, working to keep his balance as the business jet pitched even more. They were about to enter a steep dive while dropping below fifteen thousand feet.
   He found the pilot wrestling with the controls and working through the engine restart procedure and the copilot placing SOS calls to the nearest bases along the coast, but no one was responding because of the power outage.
   “The engines, General,” the pilot said with fear in his voice. “They are nonresponsive, and we have lost fly-by-wire control!”
   “The radios!” the copilot reported as they descended through eight thousand feet. “They’ve stopped working!”
   As he said this, the glass cockpit flickered and went dark, just as his nation had suddenly gone dark.
   How is this possible? Deng thought, looking about the plane’s interior, aware of the extreme measures with which his people maintained the business jet.
   Unless…
   It is easier to govern a country than a son.
   Deng tightened his jaw as the realization slapped him with the force of a hundred Sidewinders.
   Oh, Xi! My son! he thought as the dark waters filled the windshield.THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, DC
   While President Cord Macklin’s urgent telephone call to Chinese President Xi Jiechi made its way through secure channels, the angry chief executive directed General Les Chalmers to place the entire US Pacific Fleet and all military installations in the South and East Asia theaters at DEFCON 1. Included in the alert status were Marine Corps Air Station Miramar in California, Hickam Air Force Base in Hawaii, Kadena AB in Okinawa, and Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska.
   US warships, along with attack submarines based in San Diego, Guam, and Pearl Harbor, were preparing to get under way. Destination: the Western Pacific Ocean and the South China Sea.
   The commanding officers of the Ohio-class ballistic missile submarines homeported in Bangor, Washington, and at sea in the Pacific Ocean were standing by for orders from their commander in chief.
   “Sir, I have President Jiechi,” an aide announced as he stepped in the room, where Macklin sat behind his desk, polishing his reading glasses. DNI Hartwell Prost and Secretary of State Brad Austin stood nearby, as did Secretary of Defense Peter Adair. A Chinese interpreter also stood ready, if needed, and a technician to handle the recording of the call.
   “Remember, sir,” Prost said. “Based on the intel we extracted from Al Saud, Jiechi didn’t know about the activities of General Xiangsui.”
   “Believe me, Hart,” Macklin replied as he reached for the speakerphone. “That’s the only reason I’ve contained myself to a power blackout instead of blowing Beijing off the map.”
   “Also, sir,” Prost added. “Remember that the fact that we now have proof of the general’s covert activities provides us with future negotiating leverage — something to keep in our back pocket.”
   His anger barely contained, Macklin gave his DNI a brief nod before stabbing the button on the phone and saying,“Xi, I would like you to tell me why I shouldn’t immediately launch a full-scale attack on your country.” Raw anger made Macklin’s voice harsh. “Our ballistic missile defense system destroyed three warheads targeted at theVinson battle group operating in international waters. We have the capability to do that again and again until you exhaust your entire nuclear arsenal. You do not have that capability. We are on the brink of open warfare— nuclear warfare — and while I’m sure the United States will take its share of licks, you will lose.”
   “Mac,” Jiechi replied. “I assure you neither I nor my government authorized the launch of the missiles. One of our generals — how do you say it — went off the reservation. He apparently panicked after… the most peculiar power outage across China early this morning. But you wouldn’t know anything about that?”
   “No idea,” Macklin said.
   “Estimates of the economic impact are already coming in the neighborhood of eight hundred billion dollars,” Jiechi replied.
   “I imagine what the US has suffered in terms of our economy and lives lost is far greater.”
   “Yes, of course. On behalf of the Chinese people, please accept our condolences on the loss of life and this barbarous attack on your country.”
   “Stow it, Xi.”
   “Ah… In any case,” Jiechi continued, “we have ordered a complete stand-down of all of our nuclear forces and have ordered our attack and ballistic submarines to surface and proceed to the nearest port immediately, as well as all surface vessels. We have also started a major recall of coastal forces along the strait. I’m sure your National Reconnaissance Office can confirm this.”
   Macklin tilted the glasses at Adair, who signaled an aide to confirm. The aide quickly left to check with General Chalmers and the rest of the Pentagon brass huddled in the Situation Room, waiting for orders to strike.
   “Also, Mac,” Jiechi continued. “Though it is an internal matter and one we will be pursuing for some time to come, I wish to inform you that the senior officer who gave the order, General Deng Xiangsui, died this morning when his jet went down in the South China Sea.”
   A silence hung in the room as the full meaning of the Chinese president’s words sunk in.
   The aide returned and whispered in the secretary of defense’s ear. Adair looked at the president and mouthed,Confirmed.
   Macklin set his glasses on the table and rubbed his eyes with thumb and forefinger, fighting exhaustion. Lowering his voice, he said,“Xi, I’m going to take you at your word. However, I want to make something very clear: One more attack, or incident, and I will begin systematically dismantling your military forces, all of them. If you launch another missile at one of our cities, or at one of our allies, including Taiwan, or at any of our forces anywhere in the world, I will not hesitate to destroy Beijing.”
   “Mac, Iassure you that will not happen. We have no desire to be at war with our friend and best trading partner.”
   Macklin felt a hint of relief from the stress he had been under for many days.“Xi, for the sake of your people and China’s promising future, I’m very pleased to hear that. We will, of course, be keeping a close watch as your forces stand down and return to their homeports. We wish you well.”
   The president punched the line on the phone, hanging up.
   “Do you trust him?” Prost asked.
   Macklin caught his DNI’s eye before glancing at Austin and Adair, as well as thinking of Chalmers and the other chiefs huddled in the Situation Room, feeling damn lucky to be surrounded by such talent.
   Slowly he returned his gaze to his director of national intelligence.
   “Hart… in the eternal words of President Ronald Reagan,” Macklin said. “I intend to trust, but verify.”TEN MILES WEST OF COQUIMBO, CHILE
   To any casual observer, the Bay Palmer 114-foot Fantail 1960-era tycoon’s yacht could have been out for a pleasure cruise. A closer look, however, would have shown a number of details that would not be found on a pleasure yacht, starting with the armed marines keeping watch on the men huddled on the forward deck. The yacht had been refitted to operate as a private shuttle boat between Honolulu, Hawaii, and the picturesque Chilean port.
   Yuri Sergeyev breathed in, tasting the salty air. He stood on the bow, flanked by Leonod Popov and Anatoli Zhdanov. In the distance, the familiar Chilean coastline, where they had trained for nearly two years, waited.
   “Almost home, yes, Cap’n?” Popov said as the vessel’s hull sliced through three-foot waves.
   Sergeyev nodded, still unable to believe that they had not only survived their submarine ordeal but also managed to negotiate their freedom— and that the Americans were actually honoring it.
   Keeping his eyes on the distant hills, Sergeyev worked hard to suppress the emotions boiling inside of him at the thought of hugging Katrina and the girls again.
   He inhaled once more while looking at his men, all clustered on the forward deck by orders of their captors, who remained on the bridge.
   The Russian captain looked up at the glass windshield two levels above and saw the still figures of the skipper and his first mate steering them toward their freedom. He waved at the men, but neither returned it.
   Turning to face the windy seas, Sergeyev followed the shoreline to a hill just north of the coastal town, but it was the image of Katrina that filled his mind.
   Come home to me, Yuri.THIRTY-EIGHTH STREET BROWNSTONE, WASHINGTON, DC
   “All right, Captain,” Prost said after getting visual confirmation that the Russians had made it safely to shore, per Macklin’s direct orders.
   He stared at the images from an orbital asset flying at twenty-four thousand miles per hour over central Chile one last time and said.“We’re done here. Shut it down.”
   “Yes, sir,” Blake replied, before relaying his order. It was obvious that the captain wasn’t pleased with the decision to free the people who’d killed so many Americans, destroyed an attack submarine, and woundedStennis. But in the bigger picture, capturing Omar Al Saud and milking him at that black site in Poland had yielded— and continued to yield — intelligence that would prevent future attacks, and thus save many more lives.
   Then the master spy calmly walked outside and down the steps to a waiting black sedan that would take him to Langley.
   As he opened the door and climbed in the back seat, he chuckled at the irony of his profession. His clandestine work had saved— and would continue to save — countless lives, yet there would never be any public acknowledgment of him and his team. There would be no medals, nor overt recognition, except maybe for a Cuban cigar the next time he saw the president in an informal setting. He’d already put in the paperwork to ensure that Captain Blake would soon be Major Blake.
   And he’d also quietly suggested the two of them might meet for dinner…
   EPILOGUEZHONGNANHAI, BEIJING, THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
   They buried him at dawn with full military honors on a patch of grass overlooking Lake Southern Sea. A massive statue had already been commissioned from Xu Bing, the world-renown Chinese sculptor, to honor the legendary hero of the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis, responsible for the modernization of all branches of the People’s Liberation Army.
   President Xi Jiechi stood by the shores of the lake, flanked by all nine members of the Politburo Standing Committee and selected military leaders.
   A military detail solemnly carried the coffin, draped in the red national flag with the yellow stars facing a cloudless morning sky. And overhead, a formation of Su-35S jets shot across the sky trailing bright-red contrails.
   “Farewell,Zhǎng zhě,” Jiechi whispered as the man who had raised him was laid to rest less than a kilometer from the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong in Tiananmen Square.
   A combined honor guard of the PLA folded the flag before solemnly presenting it to the paramount leader of the People’s Republic of China.
   One by one, the PSC members walked by the president, patted him on the back, and whispered the traditional words,“This happened too suddenly. I feel sad for you and for our nation. I hope that you will restrain your grief and adjust to the change,” before walking away.
   The military followed, led by the new vice chairman of the Central Military Commission and supreme leader of the PLA, handpicked by Jiechi himself.
   But there would be no true solace for the fifty-nine-year-old leader who had had hisZhǎng zhě—his lifelong mentor and friend — killed.
   But what choice did I have?
   Jiechi could not have allowed the general to get anywhere near those ballistic submarines. If he had managed to get one of his captains to fire three JL-2 missiles without following protocol, the PRC president could not imagine the damage the man could have done if he’d bunkered down at Yulin Naval Base.
   Probably Armageddon. Still, at the end of the day… I killed you.
   Soon, Jiechi was left alone with the coffin as a light breeze swayed the manicured grass and rippled the surface of the lake. A lone Eurasian blue thrush swept over the water. The bright-blue bird turned its yellow beak toward Jiechi whistling its humanlike dawn song, before winging skyward.
   He watched it through his tears.USS MISSOURI (SSN 780), US NAVAL BASE SUBIC BAY
   Cmdr. Frank Kelly watched his sailors, dressed in their Summer Whites, almost trample one another as they scurried down the forward brow to pile into the Manila-bound buses on their way to a seventy-two-hour liberty. And at the front of the pack ran recently promoted Petty Officer First Class Marshon Chappelle— all under the watchful eyes of two Humvees packed with eight masters at arms, the navy’s law-enforcement officers.
   It was the best Kelly could negotiate with COMSUBPAC before having to sail back to the Indian Ocean and finish their six-month deployment. In spite of the recent end to hostilities in the Taiwan Strait, the Middle East was in turmoil. The US had been continuously bombing targets in Iran, Syria, Yemen, and other Middle Eastern nations for days now. Rumor had it that the Pentagon brass had managed to snag some top-level terrorist mastermind, broken him, and was now systematically going after terrorist training camps. And for Kelly that meant getting the ship back to full operational status, including a full complement of weapons. So, while the sailors of the Mighty Mo blew off steam and recharged, he would personally supervise the reloading of his ordnance.
   Kelly sighed. Not long ago, he had been at the front of a similar line of young sailors rushing into the open arms of his very own Pearl of the Orient.
   To be so young… and so stupid.
   “I’d better not get any damn calls from those MAs,” Lt. Cmdr. Robert Giannotti said, walking up to his CO. He also wore a short-sleeve white shirt with shoulder boards, white trousers and belt, and white dress shoes and cap. “I want to actually enjoy my time off, not spending it bailing dumbasses out of jail.”
   “Keep an eye on our boys, Bobby,” Kelly said, dressed in the camouflage pattern of his navy working uniform since he was remaining aboard.
   Kelly needed the distraction of work. After thirty heartrending minutes on the phone with his brother and another hour consoling his daughters, Kelly was in no mood for liberty.
   “No offense, sir, but the weapons officer is more than qualified to oversee the replenishment. You should come with us. My cousin Joey is the base’s XO.”
   “Of course he is,” Kelly said, shaking his head.
   Giannotti smiled before heading for the forward brow to join the noisy river of white streaming onto the pier.SANTO DOMINGO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
   Javier Ibarra made his way through the crowded marketplace on the outskirts of the capital hauling two bags of groceries and toiletries. Dressed like a local, including a baseball cap from LIDOM— the country’s professional baseball league — sunglasses, and his recently grown beard, the Basque sailor scanned the merchants and shoppers without looking at anyone in particular.
   Since he had parted ways with his crew following their escape from Newport News, Ibarra had used every skill and every asset at his disposal to disappear. He had also recommended to his team, all wealthy beyond their dreams, to do the same. He knew doing so would result in other smugglers taking over his routes, but money was no longer an issue, and he’d figured that purchasing another motorsailer and returning to his routine would be the easiest way to get caught. Omar Al Saud had vanished from the face of the planet, and Ibarra feared he had been taken by the same people now trying to hunt down the actual perpetrators.
   He caught one of the colorful buses that connected the market neighborhood to Andres, a sleepy coastal town ten kilometers east of the capital. From there, the walk to his boat took thirty minutes down alleyways and side streets, finally reaching a sandy path flanked by palm trees and tall seagrass. The long trail led to a deserted bay far away from the resorts and condominiums overlooking the turquoise waters of the Caribbean between Andres and Santo Domingo. There, he located the weathered wooden rig hidden under palm leaves in a marshy stretch of shoreline. He had purchased it from a local fisherman for less than five hundred dollars. It included a small Evinrude outboard motor that started on the first try.
   The ride across the bay took a few minutes, and soon he steered the old boat into a narrow and partly concealed waterway that snaked between a long strip of sand and the mainland. It reminded him of the canals in South America he’d used for years to make his midnight deliveries.
   Ibarra inhaled the smell of the ocean as the steady drone of the Evinrude washed away all other sounds, before he took in at a raggedy wooden pier.
   A little more than a shack to keep a low profile, his place was secluded, rented for cash and so far off the grid, it didn’t even get cell phone service. The place was also nearly impossible to find unless you knew exactly where to look. Even most residents didn’t know it existed. Flanked on one side by the constricted and shallow channel and on the other by the ocean, the half-mile-wide track of sandy terrain andmarsh under the shade of palm trees and thick vegetation typically didn’t stand up well to the water surge of large storms, making it undesirable for extended stays. But it was quite desirable for someone trying to vanish from the world.
   After securing the boat to the makeshift pier, Ibarra hauled his bags down a sandy trail that wound through the thicket until reaching a small clearing backdropped by the ocean. Off to the side, hidden from direct line of sight from the large pleasure yachts roaming the pristine Caribbean waters, stood a structure made of wood and mortar under a roof thatched with palm fronds. The whole contraption was supported by a grid of cinder blocks. It lacked electricity or running water, and it even listed a bit after taking a beating during last year’s hurricane season, but it did keep him dry and the screens on the windows kept the mosquitoes out. And most importantly, it kept him safe.
   Inhaling deeply, Ibarra started toward the shack when he noticed movement to his right, a shadow shifting from the trunk of a towering coconut tree.
   His first instinct was to reach for the Sig Sauer pistol tucked in his jeans, pressed against his spine.
   “Please reach for it,” a voice echoed over the sound of the surf. “Give me a reason to blow your head off.”
   Slowly Ibarra dropped the bag, raised his arms, and let his knees sink in the sand.* * *
   Cmdr. Jake Russo stepped out of the tall seagrass with his MP5A1 pointed at the kneeling figure. His team emerged slowly from their hiding places around the clearing, where they had waited for the last three hours.
   The SEAL commander had worried that the intel provided by Hartwell Prost’s analysts in the aftermath of Prince Omar Al Saud’s interrogation might have been dated. But the money trail from a bank in Costa Rica had led to a series of brokers, then to a small local bank. The manager there had been quite forthcoming when told he could either help them find their man orhave a free vacation courtesy of the US government.
   He had pointed them to a local rental agent whose office would be an insult to the wordseedy. The broker required no threats and happily gave up the man who fit the description of the owner of theSanto Erasmus for only five hundred dollars.
   Russo and his team had waited, hoping the man topping the FBI’s and Interpol’s most wanted lists would eventually show.
   “I… I don’t understand,” the bearded man said in a thick Hispanic accent. “I am just a local fisherman trying to—“
   “Time to answer for Newport News, Mr. Ibarra.”
   As the Basque sailor turned to face him, Lt. Gustavo Pacheco approached him from behind and placed a bag over his head.MARINE ONE, ONE THOUSAND FEET OVER CHESAPEAKE BAY, VIRGINIA
   He had made sure that his assistant included it in his weekly schedule.
   Every Wednesday afternoon, after wrapping up his meetings with whomever it was that his chief of staff had him meeting, President Cord Macklin would cross the White House lawn toward a helicopter operated by the“Nighthawks” of Marine Helicopter Squadron One HMX-1. The large Sikorsky VH-3D Sea King, which assumed the call sign Marine One the moment the president climbed aboard, would fly down Chesapeake Bay and hover near the tip of Newport News to view the multiple construction projects along the waterfront. Sensitive to the logistical security nightmare caused by presidential visits, and to keep from overstressing Okimoto and his samurais, the commander in chief settled for these flyovers to review progress without disturbing those on the ground.
   Macklin sat by the window and stared at the massive activity as crews worked nonstop along a mile of waterfront. In his mind’s eye, though, he still saw the fires and the billowing smoke rising from the demolished shoreline… and the rows and rows of body bags, the images forever chiseled in his soul.
   Then the pilot flew him over toTruman, now dry-docked alongsideKennedy. The island had been removed, and a new superstructure would be installed in a month’s time. The president stared at the charred flight deck, thinking of all the souls that had perished that day. He thought, also, ofStennis, now undergoing similar repairs in Honolulu, as well asBush, still being decontaminated following the nuclear strike. And, of course, there were the 134 sailors lost whenNorth Dakota took one of the torpedoes meant forStennis.
   He sighed.So many losses. And for what?
   Some would argue that he may not have done enough to avenge the attacks. Others could argue one day— if it ever became public — that he overstepped his boundaries as commander in chief by launching so many covert strikes, including the sinking of strategic Chinese vessels, the kidnapping of a Saudi prince, and the destruction of the power grids in two countries, which had caused havoc in world stock markets. And yet others could criticize the manner in which he’d seized hundreds of billions of dollars in assets from Omar Al Saud as well as from a number of members of the royal family — funds he now used to restore the damaged carriers and to rebuild Newport News. He’d also diverted some of the funds to bolster financial aid to the victims of the attacks.
   But Macklin couldn’t care less what the pundits thought or might think one day if any of the information was ever leaked. He knew in his heart that he had done everything within his power to punish the perpetrators while keeping his responses proportional, and even turning the tide on the war on terror and the decades-long struggle in the Taiwan Strait.
   In the final analysis, however, it was the immortal words of John F. Kennedy that filled President Macklin’s mind as he watched the tip of Newport News slowly rising from the devastation of the nuclear strike. In spite of having persevered over his enemies, in spite of having delivered a solid dose of American justice to those who had dared attack his nation, this victory truly felt like ashes in hismouth.
   ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
   Hats off to Andrew Zack at Endpapers Press.
   My sincere gratitude to R. J. Pineiro for his outstanding contribution to this novel. Without him, it wouldn’t have been possible.
   Exceptional thanks to, Joshua Johnson for his attention to editorial detail.
   A special thanks to Jeannie, my wife, editor, business manager, and best friend.
   — JOE WEBER

   A special thanks to Lt. Col. Steve“Coach” Fournier, USAF pilot, Col. Delbert “Houn’dog” Bassett, US Marine Corps aviator, Matthew Bialer, Lory Pineiro, and Alice Frenk.
   I am truly grateful to Andrew Zack, as well as to Joe and Jeannie Weber, for inviting me to participate in this novel.
   — R. J. PINEIRO

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/528770
